Front page layout
Site theme

Kyle Orland
    -    Oct 15, 2013 9:30 pm UTC

As far as multiplayer gaming on consoles is concerned, single-platform protectionism has been the de facto standard for years now. Series like Call of Duty sell millions of nearly identical copies across the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and PC, yet players can only take part in online matches against others playing on the same platform. Now, console makers are showing encouraging signs of lowering these artificial walls and letting developers create games that cross between platforms more easily.
The first chink in the armor came last week when Pure Chess developer Phil Gaskell told Eurogamer that Nintendo said it would have no problem with the game allowing cross-platform multiplayer between the Wii U and other consoles.
"On Pure Chess we asked whether we could do cross-platform multiplayer, expecting it to be the typical closed console platform I've been used to working with for 20 years," Gaskell told the site. "Within a couple of days they said, 'Yep, no problem. You can have other console players playing against Wii U players. You can have smartphone players play against them. No problem.'"
This wasn't completely new territory for Nintendo. Back in August, the developers of Cubemen 2 revealed that the upcoming Wii U version of the game would allow for cross-platform play with users on the PC, Mac, Linux, and Android versions. Still, Gaskell's interview is the first sign that Nintendo would be OK with Wii U games communicating with other consoles, rather than just with computers and mobile phones. Of course, either Sony or Microsoft would also have to be amenable to this state of affairs to get the cross-console play working.
Microsoft is also making vague gestures toward the idea of supporting more cross-platform play, at least for PC players. In a recent interview with AusGamers, Microsoft Studios General Manager Phil Harrison was asked whether increased cloud capabilities and similar architectures might lead to more shared online play between games on Xbox One and PC. "I’m not allowed to leak things, but I think what you’re talking about makes a lot of sense," was the incredibly suggestive reply.
This isn't completely new territory for Microsoft, either. The company experimented with PC/Xbox 360 cross-play with the 2006 reboot of Shadowrun, which failed to make much of an impact on critics or consumers. More recently, Skulls of the Shogun released simultaneously on Xbox 360, Windows Phone, and Windows 8 with cross-platform multiplayer, but it was limited to delayed, asynchronous moves. Harrison's hints that more cross-platform play would make a lot of sense will come as encouraging words to PC gamers who would be happy to see Microsoft giving Windows gaming more significant support in the first place, especially in the wake of the shuttering of Games for Windows Live.
Sony, for its part, has allowed for cross-platform play between PS3s and PCs with games like Square's Final Fantasy XIV and Valve's Portal 2. That minor tradition will continue on the PS4, where games like Warframe and War Thunder will connect up with the servers for the existing PC versions. And, of course, there are plenty of games that let Vita players play against those on Sony home consoles, and vice versa.
This is all encouraging, especially for PC players, but it's still pretty far from the holy grail of game servers that don't differentiate between packets sent from any version of a game, on any console, computer or mobile platform. That's going to be a tough sell since locking other console makers out of cross-platform play makes a lot of business sense. Each console maker pays to maintain its own gameplay servers, after all, and closed online gameplay platforms can create powerful network effects, forcing consumers to buy your system if they want to play with their friends.
There are some technical and gameplay considerations involved in cross-platform play, too, though none of these are insurmountable if the will is there. Hopefully, these recent statements by Nintendo and Microsoft are hints that such a will is there—or might be soon—to tear down the barriers preventing platforms from playing together.
Last edited by Xavin on Tue Oct 15, 2013 4:21 pm
Last edited by Xavin on Tue Oct 15, 2013 4:21 pm

  CNMN Collection
  WIRED Media Group
  © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 1/1/20) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 1/1/20) and Ars Technica Addendum (effective 8/21/2018). Ars may earn compensation on sales from links on this site. Read our affiliate link policy.
Your California Privacy Rights |  Do Not Sell My Personal Information
  The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices

