Here's a tier list of the best Pals in Palworld ranked
Looking for a Pal tier list to rank the best Pals in Palworld? As you journey through Palworld, you'll come across Pals of different elements with varying Partner Skills which determine how strong they are in combat.
With so many to choose from, a Pal list that is ever-expanding, and only a limited amount of space on your team, it can be hard prioritising which to recruit. Luckily, we've organised all Pals into a tier list below and then went through our top ten essential picks. Featured are the best Pals for combat, the best base Pals, mounts and more.
The following Pal tier list contains all Pals currently available in Palworld. As of writing, there are a total of 138 Pals including species variations. Below we've ranked them according to the strongest Pals in combat, the fastest mounts and how useful they are at your base when performing tasks like Planting, Handiwork and more.
Be sure to check below this tier list for a breakdown of our top ten Pals and a rundown of why each Pal should be a vital member of your team.
Now you should have a good idea which are the best Pals in Palworld. Below, we've listed the top ten Pals you need to recruit, where to find them and what makes them a worthwhile addition to your team.
Whilst there are perhaps more fearsome-looking Pals on this list, the Lyleen provides some powerful buffs both to combat and to base management.
The Lyleen resides in a top spot for both our best Planting Pals and best Medicine Production Pals lists. Whilst these skills are reason enough to recruit a Lyleen to your Palbox, their Partner Skill, Harvest Goddess can restore a player's HP in combat. This is one of few Pals with restorative powers and is infinitely useful when taking on powerful foes.
Whilst the Lyleen predominantly has Grass-type powers, they also do have access to a Water-based power, Aqua Burst, at level 22.
The Verdash has a range of valuable skills which make it a worthy recruit for your base and one of the best base Pals and best Gathering Pals.
Additionally, the Verdash can increase the player's movement speed in combat and apply Grass damage to all of the player's attacks, making it especially useful when fighting Ground-type foes.
Verdash Pals also have access to strong Ground damage attacks like the Stone Cannon which has an attack power of 70 despite the fact it can be unlocked at just level 7.
The Warsect is proficient in both Grass and Ground attacks and is both the best Grass Pal and best Lumbering Pal to recruit in Palworld due to its skill proficiencies.
If you want a Pal that can cover as many elements as possible, Warsect Pals can apply Fire damage to all of the player's attacks when recruited in your team. It can also strengthen the player's defence making it a jack of all trades and immeasurably useful against a range of Pal types.
If you have many Production Assembly Lines, you'll need an Electric Pal to help you maintain power and keep your base at maximum production efficiency. The Orserk is the best pal for Generating Electricity in the game and has a level 4 in this skill proficiency.
Simultaneously, it's the best Electric Pal due to its impressive Kerauno skill, worth 100 power. Astonishingly, this power can be unlocked from level 1 and essentially equips the Orserk with a throwable blade made of lightning.
The Orserk can additionally perform a Lightning Strike at level 7, which deals out 120 power. These are figures that most Pals have to wait until levels 40 plus to unlock.
The Necromus is arguably the best Dark Pal in Palworld due to its hard-hitting Nightmare Ball, Twin Spears and Dark Laser attacks. It additionally has access to both Fire and Ground attacks.
 Its Partner Skill allows the Necromus to be ridden as a mount and it can perform a double jump when doing so. The Necromus is classed as a Legendary Pal and there is only one in the game, as of writing.
Like its companion the Necromus, the Paladius can be used as a mount. Arguably the Paladius is the best mount in Palworld due to its triple jump ability, making traversal much easier across the game's expansive map.
The Paladius is also one of a kind and can perform both Ice and Neutral attacks. If you're looking to collect both rare and powerful Pals, the Paladius should be on your list.
The Anubis is the best Handiwork Pal in the game with a level 4 proficiency in the skill. This means it's a useful Pal to recruit at your base when you expect to do a lot of building and wish to expedite the process.
Perhaps more importantly, it's also the best Ground Pal in Paworld with access to unique attacks like the Spinning Roundhouse spin kick, Ground Smash AOE attack and Forceful Charge punch attack.
Additionally, the Anubis can move faster than most Pals and perform a side dodge whilst also applying Ground damage to all of the player's attacks. This makes it versatile and fluid in combat while delivering some seriously strong Ground damage.
The Jormuntide deserves a high place in this list due to the fact it is both the best Water Pal in Palworld, has the best Watering skill in the game and is also one of the fastest mounts you can get, capable of carrying players across bodies of water without depleting stamina.
The multi-purpose nature of the Jormuntide does not subtract from its ferociousness in combat. Capable of Water, Electric and Dragon attacks, it can summon an Aqua Burst (a ball of water to launch at enemies) at level 22. This attack is worth 100 power and is a precursor to even more powerful attacks as the Jormuntide levels up.
Few can outmatch the Jormuntide, except its variant species the Jormuntide Ignis, detailed below.
Like its blue cousin, the Jormuntide Ignis is a master of both combat and utility. With a level 4 proficiency, it's the best Kindling Pal in the game, useful for producing Ingots at your base or cooking meals.
It's also the best Fire Pal in Palworld, with the ability to enhance all Fire attacks of Pals in your team when ridden as a mount.
With access to Fire, Dragon and Electric attacks, its sure to help you in most combat situations. Its most powerful Fire attack can be accessed at level 40 (unlike other Pals that have to wait until level 50) and is worth 150 power. This attack, Fire Ball, does what it says on the tin and summons a large ball of fire to haul at foes.
Not only is the Jetragon the fastest flying mount in the game, but whilst in the air, you can fire missiles from its back. This is a legendary Pal, super rare and has access to Fire, Dragon and Dark attacks, making it a formidable predator both in the skies and on land.
The Jetragon takes our top pick for the best Dragon Pal in Palworld due to its powerful repertoire of attacks and grenade launcher Partner Skill. As of writing, there is only one Jetragon in the game and will pose a challenge to capture. If you manage to catch one, however, you'll be able to defeat any Pals foolish enough to get in your way.
That rounds off our guide to the best Pals in Palworld including a full Pal tier list and a top ten roundup. With these fearsome critters, you should be kitted out with everything you need to explore the map and expand your base. If you have just begun your Palworld journey, try our guide to the best starter Pals or see our Pal locations guide for a thorough rundown of where you can find each of the entries on our list.

        Rock Paper Shotgun is the home of PC gaming
      

        Sign in and join us on our journey to discover strange and compelling PC games.
      

Palworld


Xbox Series X/S, 
            PC



              Kiera Mills
            


          Guides Writer
        
Kiera is a Guides Writer who loves the best of most genres including horror, cosy games, survival crafting and Soulslikes. In her spare time, if she’s not causing trouble as her Wildfire Druid alter-ego, she can be found painting more of her ever-expanding Stormcast army.

Please enable JavaScript to see comments.        


Palworld type chart: All element types explained                    



Palworld: Tips and tricks for beginners                    



Fastest mounts in Palworld                    



Palworld: Best base locations                    



Latest Palworld update defaults your Pals to "Relax" and lets you create artificial volcano conditions                    



Palworld Pal Fluids: How to get and where to find                    



Palworld map of recommended area levels                    



Best Lumbering Pals in Palworld                    



Wordle hint and answer today #987 (March 2 2024)                    



Today's NYT Connections hint and answers (Sat, Mar 2)                    



How to get the Glider Launcher in Sons of the Forest                    



Palworld type chart: All element types explained                    



Palworld: Tips and tricks for beginners                    



Best Last Epoch class and mastery tier list                    



The best Elden Ring mods (2024)                    



Genshin Impact codes [March 2024]                    

Rock Paper Shotgun is owned by Gamer Network Limited, a ReedPop company and subsidiary of Reed Exhibitions Limited.
© 2024 Gamer Network Limited, Gateway House, 28 The Quadrant, Richmond, Surrey, TW9 1DN, United Kingdom, registered under company number 03882481.
All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.
