SPECIAL OFFERS
Keep up with new releases and promotions. Sign up to hear from us.

Home
            >
            Articles
            >
            Home & Office Computing
            >
            Entertainment/Gaming/Gadgets

Youngsters reading this might find it hard to believe, but there once was a
world without video games. The first home video games didn't appear until
the early 1970s and didn't become widely popular until 1975. That was when
Atari adapted its PONG game from the electronic arcade version, and
video game mania swept the country.
That was just the beginning, of course. That crude ball-and-paddle game
launched several generations of innovative electronic entertainment, culminating
in today's ultrarealistic, fast-paced console games.
Like many technological advances, the idea for video games originated with
the government; the mid-1960s military wanted some sort of device that would
develop the reflexes of military personnel. In 1966,
Ralph Baer, an
employee of defense contractor Sanders Associates, addressed this demand when he
came up with the concept of a "television gaming apparatus." This
device included both a chase game and a video tennis game, and could be attached
to a normal television set. 
It took several years and numerous false starts, but in 1970, Baer showed the
game to Magnavox, which signed a licensing agreement the following year. Then,
on January 27, 1972, Magnavox launched Baer's "brown box"
technology as the
Odyssey
video game console—the world's first home video game system. Priced
at $100, the Odyssey utilized simple black-and-white graphics, enhanced by
plastic overlays for the television screen. 
This pioneering game system was not a lasting success, however. The Odyssey
was extremely clunky and not very challenging; it also suffered from marketing
materials that implied it could be used only on Magnavox-brand television sets.
(This wasn't true, but Magnavox hoped to drive related TV sales.) As a
result, the Odyssey sold only 200,000 units over its three-year life. 
Also in 1972, inspired by an early peek at Baer's original video tennis
game, Nolan Bushnell and his Atari company released an electronic arcade game
called PONG, which became a huge success. This game
truly launched the electronic gaming revolution; from 1972 through 1976, you
couldn't go to a pub or arcade without finding a long line at the
PONG machine.
Unfazed by the Odyssey's short shelf life, Atari decided to port
PONG to the home. Unable to obtain financing to release the game on its
own, Atari partnered with Sears and in 1975 released a
home version of PONG
under the Sears Tele-Games label. The $100 game system was Sears'
best-selling item during the 1975 Christmas season, with sales of more than $40
million. 
Sears had an exclusive for about six months. In 1976, Bushnell sold Atari to
Warner Communications, which had enough cash to release an Atari-branded
PONG unit later that year. It was a further hit and established the
Atari name among the general public.
Following Atari's smashing success, several companies released
PONG "clones" using General Instrument's
"PONG-on-a-chip" integrated circuit. Chief among these
competitors were Coleco's
Telstar
and Magnavox's
Odyssey 100.
None achieved the sales levels of the Sears- and Atari-branded games, but all
managed to sell a fair number of units during the 1976 Christmas season.
In August 1976, Fairchild Camera and Instrument leveraged its position as the
creator of the microchip to release the first programmable home video game
system. Based on Fairchild's own 8-bit F8 microprocessor and displaying
16-color graphics, it was capable of playing a variety of games as programmed by
removable ROM cartridges. 
The resulting
Channel F
Video Entertainment System sold for $169 and accepted $20 Videocart
game cartridges, which resembled the then-popular 8-track tapes in size and
shape. The system was well received by gamers eager for the "next big
thing," but, faced with a glut of much-cheaper single-game systems, the
Channel F was a major disappointment. Fairchild discontinued the system in early
1978. 
RCA had been evaluating the video game market for several years; it had been
offered a chance to bid on Ralph Baer's original Odyssey technology back in
the early 1970s but had passed on the opportunity. Now, seeing Atari's
success, RCA decided to enter the video game market on its own with what it
hoped would be the first programmable system.
Unfortunately, RCA was a step too slow. RCA's
Studio II
followed Fairchild to market in January 1977 at a price of $149. Even though the
Studio II used the same 8-bit COSMAC 1802 microprocessor that was used in
NASA's Voyager and Galileo spacecraft, its chunky black-and-white graphics
were notably inferior to those of the Channel F. Interestingly, the Studio II
used keypad controllers (built into the main unit) instead of paddles or
joysticks, which enabled the playing of some numbers-based games. Too little too
late, the Studio II failed in the marketplace and was discontinued in 1979. 





                            I would like to receive exclusive offers and hear about products from InformIT and its family of brands. I can unsubscribe at any time.
                        
Pearson Education, Inc., 221 River Street, Hoboken, New Jersey 07030, (Pearson) presents this site to provide information about products and services that can be purchased through this site.
This privacy notice provides an overview of our commitment to privacy and describes how we collect, protect, use and share personal information collected through this site. Please note that other Pearson websites and online products and services have their own separate privacy policies.
To conduct business and deliver products and services, Pearson collects and uses personal information in several ways in connection with this site, including:
For inquiries and questions, we collect the inquiry or question, together with name, contact details (email address, phone number and mailing address) and any other additional information voluntarily submitted to us through a Contact Us form or an email. We use this information to address the inquiry and respond to the question.
For orders and purchases placed through our online store on this site, we collect order details, name, institution name and address (if applicable), email address, phone number, shipping and billing addresses, credit/debit card information, shipping options and any instructions. We use this information to complete transactions, fulfill orders, communicate with individuals placing orders or visiting the online store, and for related purposes.
Pearson may offer opportunities to provide feedback or participate in surveys, including surveys evaluating Pearson products, services or sites. Participation is voluntary. Pearson collects information requested in the survey questions and uses the information to evaluate, support, maintain and improve products, services or sites, develop new products and services, conduct educational research and for other purposes specified in the survey.
Occasionally, we may sponsor a contest or drawing. Participation is optional. Pearson collects name, contact information and other information specified on the entry form for the contest or drawing to conduct the contest or drawing. Pearson may collect additional personal information from the winners of a contest or drawing in order to award the prize and for tax reporting purposes, as required by law.
If you have elected to receive email newsletters or promotional mailings and special offers but want to unsubscribe, simply email information@informit.com.
On rare occasions it is necessary to send out a strictly service related announcement. For instance, if our service is temporarily suspended for maintenance we might send users an email. Generally, users may not opt-out of these communications, though they can deactivate their account information. However, these communications are not promotional in nature.
We communicate with users on a regular basis to provide requested services and in regard to issues relating to their account we reply via email or phone in accordance with the users' wishes when a user submits their information through our Contact Us form.
Pearson automatically collects log data to help ensure the delivery, availability and security of this site. Log data may include technical information about how a user or visitor connected to this site, such as browser type, type of computer/device, operating system, internet service provider and IP address. We use this information for support purposes and to monitor the health of the site, identify problems, improve service, detect unauthorized access and fraudulent activity, prevent and respond to security incidents and appropriately scale computing resources.
Pearson may use third party web trend analytical services, including Google Analytics, to collect visitor information, such as IP addresses, browser types, referring pages, pages visited and time spent on a particular site. While these analytical services collect and report information on an anonymous basis, they may use cookies to gather web trend information. The information gathered may enable Pearson (but not the third party web trend services) to link information with application and system log data. Pearson uses this information for system administration and to identify problems, improve service, detect unauthorized access and fraudulent activity, prevent and respond to security incidents, appropriately scale computing resources and otherwise support and deliver this site and its services.
This site uses cookies and similar technologies to personalize content, measure traffic patterns, control security, track use and access of information on this site, and provide interest-based messages and advertising. Users can manage and block the use of cookies through their browser.  Disabling or blocking certain cookies may limit the functionality of this site. 
This site currently does not respond to Do Not Track signals.
Pearson uses appropriate physical, administrative and technical security measures to protect personal information from unauthorized access, use and disclosure.
This site is not directed to children under the age of 13.
Pearson may send or direct marketing communications to users, provided that
Pearson may provide personal information to a third party service provider on a restricted basis to provide marketing solely on behalf of Pearson or an affiliate or customer for whom Pearson is a service provider. Marketing preferences may be changed at any time.
If a user's personally identifiable information changes (such as your postal address or email address), we provide a way to correct or update that user's personal data provided to us. This can be done on the Account page. If a user no longer desires our service and desires to delete his or her account, please contact us at customer-service@informit.com and we will process the deletion of a user's account.
Users can always make an informed choice as to whether they should proceed with certain services offered by InformIT. If you choose to remove yourself from our mailing list(s) simply visit the following page and uncheck any communication you no longer want to receive: www.informit.com/u.aspx.
Pearson does not rent or sell personal information in exchange for any payment of money.
While Pearson does not sell personal information, as defined in Nevada law, Nevada residents may email a request for no sale of their personal information to NevadaDesignatedRequest@pearson.com.
California residents should read our Supplemental privacy statement for California residents in conjunction with this Privacy Notice.  The Supplemental privacy statement for California residents explains Pearson's commitment to comply with California law and applies to personal information of California residents collected in connection with this site and the Services.
Pearson may disclose personal information, as follows:
This web site contains links to other sites. Please be aware that we are not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites. We encourage our users to be aware when they leave our site and to read the privacy statements of each and every web site that collects Personal Information. This privacy statement applies solely to information collected by this web site.
Please contact us about this Privacy Notice or if you have any requests or questions relating to the privacy of your personal information.
We may revise this Privacy Notice through an updated posting. We will identify the effective date of the revision in the posting. Often, updates are made to provide greater clarity or to comply with changes in regulatory requirements. If the updates involve material changes to the collection, protection, use or disclosure of Personal Information, Pearson will provide notice of the change through a conspicuous notice on this site or other appropriate way. Continued use of the site after the effective date of a posted revision evidences acceptance. Please contact us if you have questions or concerns about the Privacy Notice or any objection to any revisions.
Last Update: November 17, 2020
