From BioShock to The Path to Braid, we take a look at the rise of the 'art house' video game.
Almost since its inception, video gaming has striven for mainstream acceptance. Now, mainly thanks to the work of first Sony and more recently Nintendo, it’s gradually evolved from a specialist pursuit into a mass-market pastime enjoyed by young and old, male and female. But just as it starts to overtake Hollywood commercially, an increasing number of developers are endeavouring to push the medium in purely artistic terms. That’s why the rise of the “art house” game is one of the most exciting developments in modern video gaming.
It’s fair to say that the PC is the bedrock of gaming creativity, thanks in the main to its accessibility, both from a programming standpoint and the nature of digital distribution. There is some superb software available too, for game creation, and that’s leading to some really interesting new titles, such as The Path.
Inspired by Little Red Riding Hood, it turns the fairytale into a kind of oblique psychological horror, with six girls of different ages facing their own metaphorical “wolves” as they journey to their grandmother’s house. Events are left open to player interpretation, while interaction is often awkward and unnatural, but that’s seemingly the intent.
Most commentators agree that The Path represents a girl’s journey from childhood through adolescence to adulthood – it’s rare for a game to touch upon such themes, and while The Path is hardly an unqualified success as a game, it’s a fascinating piece of interactive art. And, available to download for just £7.25 from Steam (http://store.steampowered.com), it’s not going to break the bank for gamers looking for something a little more cerebral than the average shoot-’em-up.
With the current generation of consoles now supporting digital distribution, the three major platforms are also starting to host more experimental content. Sony has arguably been the most successful in leveraging such titles for its PlayStation 3 console, investing in independent developers with some truly creative minds.
Perhaps its most successful signing was the small California-based thatgamecompany, in a contract which would see the developer create three games for Sony’s PlayStation Network (PSN) download service. The first, flOw, was a huge success at the PSN’s launch, its low price undoubtedly encouraging gamers to try a game that would ordinarily have been a tough sell – after all, you don’t see too many games about the evolution of aquatic microorganisms topping the charts. flOw has since been joined by a host of other unusual titles. These include Noby Noby Boy, a surreal sandbox plaything, and the beautiful Linger In Shadows, an alluring piece of interactive real-time art in which the user can move certain objects and light sources, and guide the camera with gentle tilts of the PS3’s motion-sensitive controller.
flOw’s spiritual successor, Flower, was released just a few months ago to great critical acclaim, with reviewers excitedly discussing the question of whether it could be considered art. Certainly among the specialist press, there’s almost an obsession with getting video games recognised as an art form, and Flower briefly became another poster-child for this movement. Thatgamecompany’s president, Kellee Santiago, added fuel to the fire when she described Flower as “the video game equivalent of a poem”, though she clarified that statement by saying: “film is a work of art, [but] it alone shouldn’t be the basis of comparison when it comes to developing video games. We examine all manner of art and expression during our development process; especially when we are starting on a new idea.”
This statement ties in with the thinking of outspoken developer Jonathan Blow, whose thoughtful time-manipulating platform game Braid is the trump card in Microsoft’s Xbox Live Arcade line-up. Speaking at last year’s Montreal Games Summit, Blow asserted that “we so deeply rely on reference points like film… when we could be referring to things like sculpture or painting, which… people find just as moving.” It’s clear that as video gaming matures, developers are seeking new ways of pushing the envelope.
Even Nintendo – recently something of a pariah among “hard-core” gamers for its increasing focus on a mass-market audience – has encouraged more experimental games, most notably Art Style titles, available on the download services for both Wii and the new DSi.
The series takes a reductionist approach to gaming – stripping games down to their most basic elements, presenting titles with simplistic controls and mechanics, and utilising highly stylised, minimalist audio-visuals. This even carried over to the packaging – tiny cardboard boxes with simple logos and retro-chic designs which have become highly collectable among gaming connoisseurs. The games themselves are mostly puzzle-based, sometimes featuring nods to games of yesteryear or offering a postmodern twist. The boldest title – bit Generations: Soundvoyager – requires the use of headphones, as players attempt to build abstract soundscapes by collecting instrumental noises, moving left and right until the sound is central. The game gradually reduces visual cues until the player is entirely reliant on their ears to perceive the location of the sound.
Even big-budget games like Ken Levine’s critically acclaimed Bioshock are attempting to broaden gaming’s horizons. A blockbuster made with an art house sensibility, Bioshock’s story was influenced by Objectivist philosophy, most notably referencing Ayn Rand’s famous novel Atlas Shrugged. The game’s well-documented twist turns gaming conventions on their head, questioning the nature of player interaction and giving its narrative meaning through gameplay. Little wonder that most critics are cynical about the forthcoming film adaptation – the player’s actions are integral to the narrative, which would render the story’s most significant moment dramatically inert.
While Bioshock was a commercial success, the game and its ilk still represent a tiny percentage of the current market. Yet as gaming’s popularity increases, more mainstream and specialist reporting of these unique titles will emerge, giving them much-needed publicity and thus increasing their commercial viability. And with digital distribution likely to become ever more prominent in the coming years, it seems the rise of the art house game can only continue.
