Trying to pick the best video games of all time is a task defined by one word: hubris.
How could anyone possibly create a definitive list of gaming’s greatest accomplishments when there’s such a wildly large variety of games to choose from? That’s a question we asked ourselves over and over when deciding to put together our own top 50 list. It was the kind of task we could slice up hundreds of ways, coming out with completely different lists every single time based on our preferred methodology. That’s a testament to the rich history of games, which offer countless diverse experiences worthy of praise.
So it may seem silly to try and distill that rich landscape down to a short list. While we may have agreed when initially embarking on this ambitious project, the months of debates among the Digital Trends team have proved to be more valuable than we could have ever imagined. Construction of a list like this gave us the chance to determine what we value most in the games we love, forcing us to more closely examine our personal favorites and enduring classics. That led to long conversations where each writer involved got a chance to gush about the titles they love. It was an exchange of passion that reaffirmed our collective love of the medium we cover.
Now, we’re excited to pass those warm feelings along to our readers in a list that captures that spirit. The 50 games we ended up agreeing upon span decades, from some of gaming’s earliest hits to a 2020 indie that stands toe-to-toe with foundational classics. Not every game included may play perfectly by today’s standards, but we firmly believe that every single one of them still has something special to offer today. Whether that’s giving you a deeper understanding of how a genre formed or presenting the kind of jaw-dropping spectacle that captures the medium’s endless potential, these are the games that still resonate with us in an ever-expanding universe of interactive experiences.
So indulge us in our hubris and follow along with our picks for the 50 best video games of all time. You might disagree (we hope you do, in fact), but our wish is that you’ll leave with a better understanding of what we love about video games. ~ Giovanni Colantonio, Gaming Section Editor
Honorable mentions: Borderlands 2, Candy Crush Saga, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, Destiny 2, Elden Ring, Fallout: New Vegas, Final Fantasy XIV, Galaga, Gauntlet, God of War (2018), Inside, Kingdom Hearts 2, Myst, Persona 5 Royal, Red Dead Redemption 2, SimCity 2000, Streets of Rage 2, Super Mario Odyssey, System Shock 2, Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?
The Victrix Pro BFG is getting an upgrade in the form of new modules that feature Hall Effect joysticks. Those who own the modular controller will be able to purchase the new pieces in early 2024 either as a a two-pack or individually.
Released last year, the Pro BFG is a unique third-party controller that allows players to swap out several components on the fly. That includes taking out its joystick modules and slotting in a fight pad, or switching the orientation of the sticks to match PlayStation and Xbox layouts. Victrix will not double down on that design by releasing a standalone module that replaces its joysticks with those using Hall Effect technology.
I've struggled to find an audio solution that works for PC gaming. Over-ear headphones, even premium ones like the SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pros, irritate my ears by pressing into my glasses. And earbuds, almost regardless of brand, either lack the features I want out of a premium audio experience or come with horrendous Bluetooth lag. The new Sony InZone Buds have finally solved my problem.
They're a set of true wireless earbuds built for gaming. That's not new, as we've seen with earbuds like the HyperX Cloud Mix. The difference here is that the InZone Buds come from Sony, makers of some of the best true wireless earbuds.
Why the InZone Buds are special
First impressions are important. That’s true both in people and video game consoles.
The first time you boot up a new gaming system can be a magical moment when done right. There’s always a built-in bit of tension anytime you get a new video game console, as you gingerly unbox it and set it up. That prelude can feel like an orchestra tuning its instruments, building anticipation for the moment where you’ll finally get to power it on and hear the opening notes of a long symphony. And I’m not just speaking in metaphor here; I’m talking about the all-important console startup sound.
Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
