1	What is a video game?<mct>What is computer game?<mct>A video game or computer game is an electronic game that involves interaction with a user interface or input device (such as a joystick, controller, keyboard, or motion sensing device) to generate visual feedback from a display device, most commonly shown in a video format on a television set, computer monitor, flat-panel display or touchscreen on handheld devices, or a virtual reality headset.
2	More recently, the video game industry has expanded onto mobile gaming through mobile devices (such as smartphones and tablet computers), virtual and augmented reality systems, and remote cloud gaming.
3	What is the first video game?<mct>The first consumer video game was the arcade video game Computer Space in 1971.
4	Coupled with the availability of the Internet and digital distribution, this gave room for independent video game development (or "indie games") to gain prominence into the 2010s.
5	Since then, the commercial importance of the video game industry has been increasing.
6	As of 2020, the global video game market had estimated annual revenues of US$159 billion across hardware, software, and services, which is three times the size of the global music industry and four times that of the film industry in 2019, making it a formidable heavyweight across the modern entertainment industry.
7	Sanders patented Baer's inventions and licensed them to Magnavox, which commercialized it as the first home video game console, the Magnavox Odyssey, released in 1972.
8	This was released as Computer Space, the first arcade video game, in 1971.
9	Most modern video games are audiovisual, with audio complement delivered through speakers or headphones, and sometimes also with other types of sensory feedback (e.g., haptic technology that provides tactile sensations).
10	Some video games also allow microphone and webcam inputs for in-game chatting and livestreaming.Video games are typically categorized according to their hardware platform, which traditionally includes arcade video games, console games, and computer (PC) games; the latter also encompasses LAN games, online games, and browser games.
11	Video games are also classified into a wide range of genres based on their style of gameplay and target audience.The first video game prototypes in the 1950s and 1960s were simple extensions of electronic games using video-like output from large, room-sized mainframe computers.
12	The industry grew quickly during the "golden age" of arcade video games from the late 1970s to early 1980s but suffered from the crash of the North American video game market in 1983 due to loss of publishing control and saturation of the market.
13	Following the crash, the industry matured, was dominated by Japanese companies such as Nintendo, Sega, and Sony, and established practices and methods around the development and distribution of video games to prevent a similar crash in the future, many of which continue to be followed.
14	The emerging Asian markets and proliferation of smartphone games in particular are altering player demographics towards casual gaming and increasing monetization by incorporating games as a service.Today, video game development requires numerous interdisciplinary skills, vision, teamwork, and liaisons between different parties, including developers, publishers, distributors, retailers, hardware manufacturers, and other marketers, to successfully bring a game to its consumers.
15	The video game market is also a major influence behind the electronics industry, where personal computer component, console, and peripheral sales, as well as consumer demands for better game performance, have been powerful driving factors for hardware design and innovation.Early video games use interactive electronic devices with various display formats.
16	has the DEC PDP-1's vector display to have two spaceships battle each other.These preliminary inventions paved the way for the origins of video games today.
17	In 1972 came the iconic hit game Pong and the first home console, the Magnavox Odyssey.
18	Other early examples include Christopher Strachey's draughts game, the Nimrod computer at the 1951 Festival of Britain; OXO, a tic-tac-toe computer game by Alexander S. Douglas for the EDSAC in 1952; Tennis for Two, an electronic interactive game engineered by William Higinbotham in 1958; and Spacewar!, written by Massachusetts Institute of Technology students Martin Graetz, Steve Russell, and Wayne Wiitanen's on a DEC PDP-1 computer in 1961.
19	Each game has different means of display: NIMROD has a panel of lights to play the game of Nim, OXO has a graphical display to play tic-tac-toe, Tennis for Two has an oscilloscope to display a side view of a tennis court, and Spacewar!
20	Ralph H. Baer, while working at Sanders Associates in 1966, devised a control system to play a rudimentary game of table tennis on a television screen.
21	Bushnell and Dabney went on to form Atari, Inc., and with Allan Alcorn, created their second arcade game in 1972, the hit ping pong-style Pong, which was directly inspired by the table tennis game on the Odyssey.
22	The success of the Odyssey and Pong, both as an arcade game and home machine, launched the video game industry.
23	Though Bushnell believed the term came from a vending magazine review of Computer Space in 1971, a review of the major vending magazines Vending Times and Cashbox showed that the term came much earlier, appearing first around March 1973 in these magazines in mass usage including by the arcade game manufacturers.
24	As analyzed by video game historian Keith Smith, the sudden appearance suggested that the term had been proposed and readily adopted by those involved.
25	In the 2000s, the core industry centered on "AAA" games, leaving little room for riskier experimental games.
26	With the arrival of video games in arcades during the early 1970s, there was initially some confusion in the arcade industry over what term should be used to describe the new games.
27	These are still commonly justified as video games as they provide a game world that the player can interact with by some means.The lack of any industry definition for a video game by 2021 was an issue during the case Epic Games v. Apple which dealt with video games offered on Apple's iOS App Store.
28	Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers, recognizing that there was yet an industry standard definition for a video game, established for her ruling that "At a bare minimum, videogames appear to require some level of interactivity or involvement between the player and the medium" compared to passive entertainment like film, music, and television, and "videogames are also generally graphically rendered or animated, as opposed to being recorded live or via motion capture as in films or television".
29	Video game developers, as employees within this industry are commonly referred, primarily include programmers and graphic designers.
30	At times, this repurposing of gameplay can be seen as beneficial and a fundamental part of how the industry has grown by building on the ideas of others.
31	The industry remains challenged to distinguish between creating new games based on refinements of past successful games to create a new type of gameplay, and intentionally creating a clone of a game that may simply swap out art assets.The early history of the video game industry, following the first game hardware releases and through 1983, had little structure.
32	Video games quickly took off during the golden age of arcade video games from the late 1970s to early 1980s, but the newfound industry was mainly composed of game developers with little business experience.
33	Inspired by radar display technology, it consists of an analog device allowing a user to control the parabolic arc of a dot on the screen to simulate a missile being fired at targets, which are paper drawings fixed to the screen.
34	Both Baer and Bushnell have been titled "Father of Video Games" for their The term "video game" was developed to distinguish this class of electronic games that were played on some type of video display rather than on a teletype printer, audio speaker or similar device.
35	Features such as color depth, refresh rate, frame rate, and screen resolution are a combination of the limitations of the game platform and display device and the program efficiency of the game itself.
36	Archivists and preservations have worked within the scope of copyright law to save these games as part of the cultural history of the industry.There are many video game museums around the world, including the National Videogame Museum in Frisco, Texas, which serves as the largest museum wholly dedicated to the display and preservation of the industry's most important artifacts.
37	running at Stanford University, devised a similar version running in a smaller coin-operated arcade cabinet using a less expensive computer.
38	Adlum explained in 1985 that up until the early 1970s, amusement arcades typically had non-video arcade games such as pinball machines and electro-mechanical games.
39	In addition to collecting home video game consoles, the Electronics Conservancy organization set out to locate and restore 400 antique arcade cabinets after realizing that the majority of these games had been destroyed and feared the loss of their historical significance.
40	Similar control sets are built into handheld consoles and onto arcade cabinets.
41	Prior to the mid-1970s, arcade and home consoles were programmed by assembling discrete electro-mechanical components on circuit boards, which limited games to relatively simple logic.
42	Another key difference is that, though having declined in the West, arcade games remain an important sector of the Japanese gaming industry.
43	aside, the games of the 1960s did not.In the arcade and on home consoles, fast-paced action and real-time gameplay were the norm in genres like racing and target shooting.
44	While 1970s mainframes were more powerful than arcade and console hardware of the period, the need to parcel out computing resources to dozens of simultaneous users via time-sharing significantly hampered their abilities.
45	This also distinguished from many handheld electronic games like Merlin which commonly used LED lights for indicators but did not use these in combination for imaging purposes.
46	and the term "TV game" is still commonly used into the 21st century.The first appearance of the term "video game" emerged around 1973.
47	The term system is also commonly used.
48	This is most commonly haptic technology built into the game controller, such as causing the controller to shake in the player's hands to simulate a shaking earthquake occurring in game.Video games are frequently classified by a number of factors related to how one plays them.A video game, like most other forms of media, may be categorized into genres.
49	These are most commonly simulation games where the player may establish a starting state and then let the game proceed on its own, watching the results as a passive observer, such as with many computerized simulations of Conway's Game of Life.Most video games are intended for entertainment purposes.
50	Simply put, ludologists reject traditional theories of art because they claim that the artistic and socially relevant qualities of a video game are primarily determined by the underlying set of rules, demands, and expectations imposed on the player.While many games rely on emergent principles, video games commonly present simulated story worlds where emergent behavior occurs within the context of the game.
51	"Computer game" may also be used as a descriptor, as all these types of games essentially require the use of a computer processor, and in some cases, it is used interchangeably with "video game".
52	More technology continued to be created, as the computer began to be used in people's houses for more than just office and daily use.
53	These bugs, along with cheat codes, Easter eggs, and other hidden secrets that were intentionally added to the game can also be On some consoles, cheat cartridges allow players to execute these cheat codes, and user-developed trainers allow similar bypassing for computer software games.
54	Both of which might make the game easier, give the player additional power-ups, or change the appearance of the game.To distinguish from electronic games, a video game is generally considered to require a platform, the hardware which contains computing elements, to process player interaction from some type of input device and displays the results to a video output display.Video games require a platform, a specific combination of electronic components or computer hardware and associated software, to operate.
55	Most common are the use of game controllers like gamepads and joysticks for most consoles, and as accessories for personal computer systems along keyboard and mouse controls.
56	Digital cameras and motion detection can capture movements of the player as input into the game, which can, in some cases, effectively eliminate the control, and on other systems such as virtual reality, are used to enhance immersion into the game.By definition, all video games are intended to output graphics to an external video display, such as cathode-ray tube televisions, newer liquid-crystal display (LCD) televisions and built-in screens, projectors or computer monitors, depending on the type of platform the game is played on.
57	This is not to say that the age of the "one-man shop" is gone, as this is still sometimes found in the casual gaming and handheld markets, where smaller games are prevalent due to technical limitations such as limited RAM or lack of dedicated 3D graphics rendering capabilities on the target platform (e.g., some PDAs).Video games are programmed like any other piece of computer software.
58	Ongoing improvements in computer hardware technology has expanded what has become possible to create in video games, coupled with convergence of common hardware between console, computer, and arcade platforms to simplify the development process.
59	However, the term "computer game" can also be used to more specifically refer to games played primarily on personal computers or other type of flexible hardware systems (also known as a PC game), as a way distinguish them from console games, arcade games or mobile games.
60	What is remaster video game?<mct>These also may be remasters - where most of the original game's source code is reused and art assets, models, and game levels are updated for modern systems  and remakes, where in addition to asset improvements, significant reworking of the original game and possibly from scratch is performed.The list below is not exhaustive and excludes other electronic devices capable of playing video games such as PDAs and graphing calculators.Early arcade games, home consoles, and handheld games were dedicated hardware units with the game's logic built into the electronic componentry of the hardware.
61	However, at times and more frequently at the onset of the industry, developers would intentionally create video game clones of successful games and game hardware with few changes, which led to the flooded arcade and dedicated home console market around 1978.
62	The lax oversight by China's government and the difficulty for foreign companies to take Chinese entities to court had enabled China to support a large grey market of cloned hardware and software systems.
63	Hardware production remains an area dominated by Asian companies either directly involved in hardware design or part of the production process, but digital distribution and indie game development of the late 2000s has allowed game developers to flourish nearly anywhere and diversify the field.According to the market research firm Newzoo, the global video game industry drew estimated revenues of over $159 billion in 2020.
64	Separately, there is also concern about the preservation of video games, as both game media and the hardware to play them degrade over time.
65	While Sony and Microsoft continued to develop hardware for comparable top-end console features, Nintendo opted to focus on innovative gameplay.
66	While the Colecovision only had 17% of the hardware market in 1982 compared to the Atari VCS' share of 58%, it outsold Atari's newer console, the Atari 5200.A few games from this period have been considered milestones in the history of video games, and some of the earliest in popular genres.
67	Other terms such as "television game" or "telegame" had been used in the 1970s and early 1980s, particularly for the home gaming consoles that rely on connection to a television set.
68	In Japan, where consoles like the Odyssey were first imported and then made within the country by the large television manufacturers such as Toshiba and Sharp Corporation, such games are known as "TV games", or TV geemu or terebi geemu.
69	Numerous television shows (both animated and live-action), films, comics and novels have been created based on existing video game franchises.
70	To play Spacewar one needed access to a research facilitys computer, which kept the games influence limited to the small computer technology sphere.In fact, video games did not get their true start from computer programmers, but from an engineer skilled in another major invention of the 20th century: the television set.
71	By the 1960s, millions of Americans had invested in televisions for their homes, but these television sets were only used for the viewing of entertainment.
72	Called TVG#1 or TV Game Unit #1, the device, when used with an alignment generator, produced a dot on the television screen that could be manually controlled by the user.
73	Once Baer had established how it was possible to interact with the television set, he and his team were able to design and build increasingly sophisticated prototypes.Sanders senior management were impressed with Baers progress and assigned him the task of turning this technology into a commercially viable product.
74	Ultimately, the problem was that Magnavox saw Odyssey as a gimmick to sell more television sets.
75	"Electronic game" may also be used to refer to video games, but this also incorporates devices like early handheld electronic games that lack any video output.
76	Gaming can both be entertainment as well as competition, as a new trend known as electronic sports is becoming more widely accepted.
77	The International Center for the History of Electronic Games at The Strong in Rochester, New York contains one of the largest collections of electronic games and game-related historical materials in the world, including a 5,000-square-foot (460m2) exhibit which allows guests to play their way through the history of video The Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC has three video games on permanent display: Pac-Man, Dragon's Lair, and Pong.The Museum of Modern Art has added a total of 20 video games and one video game console to its permanent Architecture and Design Collection since 2012.
78	He "wrestled with descriptions of this type of game," alternating between "TV game" and "television game" but "finally woke up one day" and said, "what the hell... video game!"
79	To distinguish between these two, video games are considered to require some interactivity that affects the visual display.Most video games tend to feature some type of victory or winning conditions, such as a scoring mechanism or a final boss fight.
80	The introduction of walking simulators (adventure games that allow for exploration but lack any objectives) like Gone Home, and empathy games (video games that tend to focus on emotion) like That Dragon, Cancer brought the idea of games that did not have any such type of winning condition and raising the question of whether these were actually games.
81	An exception is the horror game genre, used for games that are based on narrative elements of horror fiction, the supernatural, and psychological horror.Genre names are normally self-describing in terms of the type of gameplay, such as action game, role playing game, or shoot 'em up, though some genres have derivations from influential works that have defined that genre, such as roguelikes from Rogue, Grand Theft Auto clones from Grand Theft Auto III, and battle royale games from the film Battle Royale.
82	Most content review is based on the level of violence, both in the type of violence and how graphic it may be represented, and sexual content, but other themes such as drug and alcohol use and gambling that can influence children may also be identified.
83	Over the years this has expanded to include almost every type of skill that one might see prevalent in the creation of any movie or television program, including sound designers, musicians, and other technicians; as well as skills that are specific to video games, such as the game designer.
84	As platforms have become more complex and powerful in the type of material they can present, larger teams have been needed to generate all of the art, programming, cinematography, and more.
85	With the capability to render 3D actors and settings in real-time, a new type of work machinima (short for "machine cinema") grew out from using video game engines to craft narratives.
86	Now, companies have moved towards games only the specific console can play to grasp the consumer into purchasing their product compared to when video games first began, there was little to no variety.
87	In 1989, a console war begun with Nintendo, one of the biggest in gaming was up against target, Sega with their brand new Master System which, failed to compete, allowing the Nintendo Emulator System to be one of the most consumed product in the world.
88	Consoles typically include standard controllers which are shipped or bundled with the console itself, while peripheral controllers are available as a separate purchase from the console manufacturer or third-party vendors.
89	Mobile games accounted for the bulk of this, with a 48% share of the market, followed by console games at 28% and personal computer games at 23%.Sales of different types of games vary widely between countries due to local preferences.
90	Japanese consumers tend to purchase much more handheld games than console games and especially PC games, with a strong preference for games catering to local tastes.
91	Video games in south korea?<mct>In South Korea, computer games are generally preferred over console games, especially MMORPG games and real-time strategy games.
92	Europe hosts video game museums such as the Computer Games Museum in Berlin and the Museum of Soviet Arcade Machines in Moscow and The Museum of Art and Digital Entertainment in Oakland, California is a dedicated video game museum focusing on playable exhibits of console and computer games.
93	The first home video game console was the Magnavox Odyssey, and the first arcade video games were Computer Space and Pong.
94	Early games like tic-tac-toe, solitaire, and Tennis for Two were great ways to bring new gaming to another system rather than one specifically meant for gaming.While many games readily fall into a clear, well-understood definition of video games, new genres and innovations in game development have raised the question of what are the essential factors of a video game that separate the medium from other forms of entertainment.The introduction of interactive films in the 1980s with games like Dragon's Lair, featured games with full motion video played off a form of media but only limited user interaction.
95	Foreign games published in China often require modification by developers and publishers to meet these requirements.Video game development and authorship, much like any other form of entertainment, is frequently a cross-disciplinary field.
96	These features can be used from a developers' programming language of choice, or they may opt to also use game development kits that minimize the amount of direct programming they have to do but can also limit the amount of customization they can add into a game.
97	Like all software, video games usually undergo quality testing before release to assure there are no bugs or glitches in the product, though frequently developers will release patches and updates.With the growth of the size of development teams in the industry, the problem of cost has increased.
98	Typically, a video game console development team ranges from 5 to 50 people, and some exceed 100.
99	In May 2009, Assassin's Creed II was reported to have a development staff of 450.
100	Indie game development are aided by larger availability of digital distribution, including the newer mobile gaming marker, and readily-available and low-cost development tools for these platforms.Although departments of computer science have been studying the technical aspects of video games for years, theories that examine games as an artistic medium are a relatively recent development in the humanities.
101	Along with it, Nintendo established a number of core industrial practices to prevent unlicensed game development and control game distribution on their platform, methods that continue to be used by console manufacturers today.The industry remained more conservative following the 1983 crash, forming around the concept of publisher-developer dichotomies, and by the 2000s, leading to the industry centralizing around low-risk, triple-A games and studios with large development budgets of at least $10 million or more.
102	Rogers still concluded that what is a video game "appears highly eclectic and diverse".The gameplay experience varies radically between video games, but many common elements exist.
103	What is video game genres?<mct>However, unlike film or television which use visual or narrative elements, video games are generally categorized into genres based on their gameplay interaction, since this is the primary means which one interacts with a video game.
104	Tell me more about video game genres?<mct>A hierarchy of game genres exist, with top-level genres like "shooter game" and "action game" that broadly capture the game's main gameplay style, and several subgenres of specific implementation, such as within the shooter game first-person shooter and third-person shooter.
105	Indie games are made by small teams outside any direct publisher control, their games being smaller in scope than those from the larger "AAA" game studios, and are often experiment in gameplay and art style.
106	Gameplay itself is generally not considered copyrightable; in the United States among other countries, video games are considered to fall into the ideaexpression distinction in that it is how the game is presented and expressed to the player that can be copyrighted, but not the underlying principles of the game.Because gameplay is normally ineligible for copyright, gameplay ideas in popular games are often replicated and built upon in other games.
107	For example Doom (1993) and Grand Theft Auto III (2001) introduced gameplay that created popular new game genres, the first-person shooter and the Grand Theft Auto clone, respectively, in the few years after their release.
108	If these experiences weren't scary, their gameplay decisions might be considered poor design, but coupled with effective atmosphere those same conventions serve to amplify fear.
109	The gory decapitation deaths were unusually graphic for the time, and the unpredictable gameplay always surprising as Myers jumped out from behind doors.
110	Most games will launch into a title screen and give the player a chance to review options such as the number of players before starting a game.
111	Most games are divided into levels which the player must work the avatar through, scoring points, collecting power-ups to boost the avatar's innate attributes, all while either using special attacks to defeat enemies or moves to avoid them.
112	This information is relayed to the player through a type of on-screen user interface such as a heads-up display atop the rendering of the game itself.
113	Taking damage will deplete their avatar's health, and if that falls to zero or if the avatar otherwise falls into an location, the player will lose one of their lives.
114	Should they lose all their lives without gaining an extra life or "1-UP", then the player will reach the "game over" screen.
115	Many levels as well as the game's finale end with a type of boss character the player must defeat to continue on.
116	In some games, intermediate points between levels will offer save points where the player can create a saved game on storage media to restart the game should they lose all their lives or need to stop the game and restart at a later time.
117	Newer technology improvements have incorporated additional technology into the controller or the game platform, such as touchscreens and motion detection sensors that give more options for how the player interacts with the game.
118	Games are typically designed to be played on one or a limited number of platforms, and exclusivity to a platform is used as a competitive edge in the video game market.
119	The game's output can range from fixed displays using LED or LCD elements, text-based games, two-dimensional and three-dimensional graphics, and augmented reality displays.The game's graphics are often accompanied by sound produced by internal speakers on the game platform or external speakers attached to the platform, as directed by the game's programming.
120	Such music has frequently served as a platform for covers and remixes, and concerts featuring video game soundtracks performed by bands or orchestras, such as Video Games Live, have also become popular.
121	Since then, most video game platforms are considered programmable, having means to read and play multiple games distributed on different types of media or formats.
122	Physical formats include ROM cartridges, magnetic storage including magnetic-tape data storage and floppy discs, optical media formats including CD-ROM and DVDs, and flash memory cards.
123	In some cases, the media serves as the direct read-only memory for the game, or it may be the form of installation media that is used to write the main assets to the player's platform's local storage for faster loading periods and later updates.Games can be extended with new content and software patches through either expansion packs which are typically available as physical media, or as downloadable content nominally available via digital distribution.
124	The names may shift over time as players, developers and the media come up with new terms; for example, first-person shooters were originally called "Doom clones" based on the 1993 game.
125	Computer games are also popular in China.Video game culture is a worldwide new media subculture formed around video games and game playing.
126	In Empire Avenue, a player's worth is linked to his or her social media influence and activity, as well as that of the other players he or she has invested virtual currency in.
127	This game design promotes social media interaction as a means to attaining higher value in Empire Avenue market rankings.Gamers will be able to purchase in game items like power-ups, avatar accessories, or decorative items users purchase within the game itself.
128	Cow Clicker was clearly designed to ridicule other social media games such as FarmVille, yet fifty-six thousand users played it at its peak.
129	Several games offer players the ability to create user-generated content to share with others to play.
130	Different game types include:Video games can be subject to national and international content rating requirements.
131	China's video game segment is mostly isolated from the rest of the world due to the government's censorship, and all games published there must adhere to strict government review, disallowing content such as smearing the image of the Chinese Communist Party.
132	No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.
133	At the same time, Microsoft called it a boon for players, who didn't have to spend $5, $10, or $20 for bundles of content they didn't want.
134	In April 2006, it released the first of its planned expansion content for Oblivion.
135	Since then, horse armor has been held up as an early infamous example of downloadable content and microtransactions gone wrong, but the actual material hit to Bethesda was almost nil.
136	Nintendo has made it an art form with Amiibo, a line of $13 figures with near-field communication (NFC) chips, allowing them to unlock additional content within a wide variety of games.No one even blinks at the addition of direct microtransactions anymore.
137	Specialized controllers may be used for certain genres of games, including racing wheels, light guns and dance pads.
138	Some cross-genre types also exist that fall until multiple top-level genres such as action-adventure game.A video game's mode describes how many players can use the game at the same type.
139	An individual game may belong to several genres at once.Early attempts at categorizing video games were primarily for organizing catalogs and books.
140	The first two of these correspond to the still-used genres of fixed shooter and multidirectional shooter.Within the personal computer space, two publications established a small number of categories based on the best-selling software in the early 1980s: Softalk, which ran its Top Thirty list from 1980 to 1984 with the genres of strategy, adventure, fantasy and arcade; and Computer Gaming World, which collected user-submitted rankings.
141	Targeting high-value, low-risk video game genres were key for some publishers, and small and independent developers were typically forced to compete by abandoning more experimental gameplay and settling into the same genres used by larger publishers.As hardware capabilities have increased, new genres have become possible, with examples being increased memory, the move from 2D to 3D, new peripherals, online functionalities, and location-based mechanics.
142	Through indie games, a revival of experimental gameplay had emerged, and several new genres have emerged since then.Due to "direct and active participation" of the player, video game genres differ from literary and film genres.
143	In contrast to the visual aesthetics of games, which can vary greatly, it is argued that it is interactivity characteristics that are common to all games.Like film genres, the names of video game genres have come about generally as a common understanding between the audience and the producers.
144	Descriptive names of genres take into account the goals of the game, the protagonist and even the perspective offered to the player.
145	Like with film content ratings, video game ratings typing identify the target age group that the national or regional ratings board believes is appropriate for the player, ranging from all-ages, to a teenager-or-older, to mature, to the infrequent adult-only games.
146	A primary identifier based on a minimum age is used by nearly all systems, along with additional descriptors to identify specific content that players and parents should be aware of.The regulations vary from country to country but generally are voluntary systems upheld by vendor practices, with penalty and fines issued by the ratings body on the video game publisher for misuse of the ratings.
147	Among the major content rating systems include:Additionally, the major content system provides have worked to create the International Age Rating Coalition (IARC), a means to streamline and align the content ratings system between different region, so that a publisher would only need to complete the content ratings review for one provider, and use the IARC transition to affirm the content rating for all other regions.Certain nations have even more restrictive rules related to political or ideological content.
148	The potential addictive behavior around games, coupled with increased used of post-sale monetization of video games, has also raised concern among parents, advocates, and government officials about gambling tendencies that may come from video games, such as controversy around the use of loot boxes in many high-profile games.Numerous other controversies around video games and its industry have arisen over the years, among the more notable incidents include the 1993 United States Congressional hearings on violent games like Mortal Kombat which lead to the formation of the ESRB ratings system, numerous legal actions taken by attorney Jack Thompson over violent games such as Grand Theft Auto III and Manhunt from 2003 to 2007, the outrage over the "No Russian" level from Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 in 2009 which allowed the player to shoot a number of innocent non-player characters at an airport, and the Gamergate harassment campaign in 2014 that highlighted misogyny from a portion of the player demographic.
149	Within Germany, until 2018, the Selbstkontrolle (Entertainment Software Self-Regulation) would refuse to classify, and thus allow sale, of any game depicting Nazi imagery, and thus often requiring developers to replace such imagery with fictional ones.
150	By 1975, low-cost microprocessors were available at volume to be used for video game hardware, which allowed game developers to program more detailed games, widening the scope of what was possible.
151	Today, game developers have a number of commercial and open source tools available for use to make games, often which are across multiple platforms to support portability, or may still opt to create their own for more specialized features and direct control of the game.
152	A variety of middleware exists to help developers to access other features, such as for playback of videos within games, network-oriented code for games that communicate via online services, matchmaking for online games, and similar features.
153	While video game developers are a significant portion of the industry, other key participants in the market include:The industry itself grew out from both the United States and Japan in the 1970s and 1980s before having a larger worldwide contribution.
154	Since then, video game developers have come to use the form more for artistic expression, including the development of art games, and the cultural heritage of video games as works of arts, beyond their technical capabilities, have been part of major museum exhibits, including The Art of Video Games at the Smithsonian American Art Museum and toured at other museums from 2012 to 2016.Video games will inspire sequels and other video games within the same franchise, but also have influenced works outside of the video game medium.
155	Further, many of the game developers and publishers from the first decades no longer exist, so records of their games have disappeared.
156	Another group of Atari and Mattel developers left and formed Imagic in 1981, following Activision's model.Atari's dominance of the market was challenged by Coleco's ColecoVision in 1982.
157	The growth of team size combined with greater pressure to get completed projects into the market to begin recouping production costs has led to a greater occurrence of missed deadlines, rushed games and the release of unfinished products.While amateur and hobbyist game programming had existed since the late 1970s with the introduction of home computers, a newer trend since the mid-2000s is indie game development.
158	Due to loss of publishing control and oversaturation of the market, the North American home video game market crashed in 1983, dropping from revenues of around $3 billion in 1983 to $100 million by 1985.
159	Coupled with rapid growth in the golden age of arcade video games, including Space Invaders and Pac-Man, the home console market also flourished.
160	The latter part of the 1980s and early 1990s included video games driven by improvements and standardization in personal computers and the console war competition between Nintendo and Sega as they fought for market share in the United States.
161	Optical media via CD-ROMs began to be incorporated into personal computers and consoles, including Sony's fledgling PlayStation console line, pushing Sega out of the console hardware market while diminishing Nintendo's role.
162	Microsoft entered the console hardware market in the early 2000s with its Xbox line, fearing that Sony's PlayStation positioned as a game console and entertainment device, would displace personal computers.
163	Many of these were Pong clones using ball-and-paddle controls, and led to saturation of the market in 1974, forcing arcade game makers to try to innovate new games in 1975.
164	Many of the newer companies created in the wake of Pong failed to innovate on their own and shut down, and by the end of 1975, the arcade market had fallen by about 50% based on new game sale revenues.
165	This typically only applies to the underlying code, as well as to the artistic aspects of the game such as its writing, art assets, and music.
166	Because video games are an interactive medium there has been trouble in converting them to these passive forms of media, and typically such works have been critically panned or treated as children's media.
167	On Apple's systems, and on a handful of other laptops, there are also Thunderbolt ports, but Thunderbolt 3 uses USB-C. Laptops typically have a headphone jack, so that the user can connect headphones or amplified speaker systems for listening to music or other audio.In the past, a PC Card (formerly PCMCIA) or ExpressCard slot for expansion was often present on laptops to allow adding and removing functionality, even when the laptop is powered on; these are becoming increasingly rare since the introduction of USB 3.0.
168	In newer laptops, it is not uncommon to also see Micro SATA (mSATA) functionality on PCI Express Mini or M.2 card slots allowing the use of those slots for SATA-based solid-state drives.Mobile PCI Express Module (MXM) is a type of expansion card that is used for graphics cards.Since the late 1990s, laptops have typically used lithium ion or lithium polymer batteries, These replaced the older nickel metal-hydride typically used in the 1990s, and nickelcadmium batteries used in most of the earliest laptops.
169	A battery's performance gradually decreases over time; a noticeable reduction in capacity is typically evident after two to three years of regular use, depending on the charging and discharging pattern and the design of the battery.
170	The charger typically adds about 400 grams (0.88lb) to the overall transporting weight of a laptop, although some models are substantially heavier or lighter.
171	A laptop connects and disconnects to a docking station, typically through a single large proprietary connector.
172	A new battery typically stores enough energy to run the laptop for five to six hours or more, depending on usage and the battery size.
173	Video games also frequently incorporate licensed music, particularly in the area of rhythm games, furthering the depth of which video games and music can work together.Further, video games can serve as a virtual environment under full control of a producer to create new works.
174	Unreal Engine has been used as a backbone by Industrial Light & Magic for their StageCraft technology for shows like The Mandalorian.Separately, video games are also frequently used as part of the promotion and marketing for other media, such as for films, anime, and comics.
175	A further issue in the industry is related to working conditions, as development studios and publishers frequently use "crunch time", required extended working hours, in the weeks and months ahead of a game's release to assure on-time delivery.Players of video games often maintain collections of games.
176	A 2019 systematic review also added support for the claim that video games are beneficial to the brain, although the beneficial effects of video gaming on the brain differed by video games types.Organisers of video gaming events, such as the organisers of the D-Lux video game festival in Dumfries, Scotland, have emphasised the positive aspects video games can have on mental health.
177	A study in 2020 from Oxford University also suggested that playing video games can be a benefit to a person's mental health.
178	Organisers, mental health workers and mental health nurses at the event emphasised the relationships and friendships that can be built around video games and how playing games can help people learn about others as a precursor to discussing the person's mental health.
179	The report found that those that played more games tended to report greater Also in 2020, computer science professor Regan Mandryk of the University of Saskatchewan said her research also showed that video games can have health benefits such as reducing stress and improving mental health.
180	Medical experts and mental health professionals have also raised concerned that video games may be addictive, and the World Health Organization has included "gaming disorder" in the 11th revision of its International Statistical Classification of Diseases.
181	Impact of video game in health?<mct>Video game and health?<mct>Impact of video game on mental health?<mct>Other health experts, including the American Psychiatric Association, have stated that there is insufficient evidence that video games can create violent tendencies or lead to addictive behavior, though agree that video games typically use a compulsion loop in their core design that can create dopamine that can help reinforce the desire to continue to play through that compulsion loop and potentially lead into violent or addictive Even with case law establishing that video games qualify as a protected art form, there has been pressure on the video game industry to keep their products in check to avoid over-excessive violence particularly for games aimed at younger children.
182	was developed by Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) student hobbyists in 1962 as one of the first such games on a video display.
183	The first consumer video game hardware was released in the early 1970s.
184	is considered one of the first recognized video games that enjoyed wider distribution behind a single exhibition system.
185	Finally, the founding of the first magazines dedicated to computing like Creative Computing (1974), the publication of the earliest program compilation books like 101 BASIC Computer Games (1973), and the spread of wide-area networks such as the ARPANET allowed programs to be shared more easily across great distances.
186	Like Adventure, these games ultimately inspired some of the earliest personal computer games.The modern video game industry grew out of the concurrent development of the first arcade video game and the first home video game console in the early 1970s in the United States.The arcade video game industry grew out of the pre-existing arcade game industry, which was previously dominated by electro-mechanical games (EM games).
187	With Baer's help, Magnavox developed the Magnavox Odyssey, the first commercial home console, in 1972.Concurrently, Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney had the idea of making a coin-operated system to run Spacewar!
188	By 1971, the two had developed Computer Space with Nutting Associates, the first arcade video game.
189	Atari's Pong was released in late 1972 and is considered the first successful arcade video game.
190	After its home console conversions, numerous companies sprang up to capture Pong's success in both the arcade and the home by cloning the game, causing a series of boom and bust cycles due to oversaturation and lack of innovation.By the mid-1970s, low-cost programmable microprocessors replaced the discrete logic circuitry of early hardware, and the first ROM cartridge-based home consoles arrived, including the Atari Video Computer System (VCS).
191	The first major handheld video game consoles appeared in the 1990s, led by Nintendo's Game Boy platform.In the early 1990s, advancements in microprocessor technology gave rise to real-time 3D polygonal graphic rendering in game consoles, as well as in PCs by way of graphics cards.
192	Toy company Coleco Industries used this chip to create the million-selling Telstar console model series (197677).These initial home video game consoles were popular, leading to a large influx of companies releasing Pong and other video game clones to satisfy consumer demand.
193	While there were only seven companies that were releasing home consoles in 1975, there were at least 82 by 1977, with more than 160 different models that year alone that were easily documented.
194	A large number of these consoles were created in East Asia, and it is estimated that over 500 Pong-type home console models were made during this period.
195	As with the prior paddle-and-ball saturation in the arcade game field by 1975 due to consumer weariness, dedicated console sales dropped sharply in 1978, disrupted by the introduction of programmable systems and Handheld electronic games.Just as dedicated consoles were waning in popularity in the West, they briefly surged in popularity in Japan.
196	Notably, Nintendo entered the video game market during this period alongside its current traditional and electronic toy product lines, producing the series of Color TV-Game consoles in partnership with Mitsubishi.After the ball-and-paddle market saturation in 1975, game developers began looking for new ideas for games, buoyed by the ability to use programmable microprocessors rather than analog components.
197	These figures made arcade games the most popular entertainment medium in the country, far surpassing both pop music (at $4 billion in sales per year) and Hollywood films ($3 billion).Development costs of dedicated game hardware for arcade and home consoles based on discrete component circuitry and integrated circuits (ASICs) with only limited consumer lifespans drove engineers to find alternatives.
198	The 1983 video game crash in the United States was characterized by a flood of too many games, often of poor or cloned qualities, and the sector saw competition from inexpensive personal computers and new types of games being developed for them.
199	These systems used either electronic light displays and mainly as demonstration systems at large exhibitions to showcase the power of computers at the time.
200	The game's source code was shared with other institutions with a PDP-1 across the country as the MIT students themselves moved about, allowing the game to gain popularity.In the 1960s, a number of computer games were created for mainframe and minicomputer systems, but these failed to achieve wide distribution due to the continuing scarcity of computer resources, a lack of sufficiently trained programmers interested in crafting entertainment products, and the difficulty in transferring programs between computers in different geographic areas.
201	Tolkien, Adventure established a new genre based around exploration and inventory-based puzzle solving that made the transition to personal computers in the late 1970s.While most games were created on hardware of limited graphic ability, one computer able to host more impressive games was the PLATO system developed at the University of Illinois.
202	Such home computers were initially a hobbyist activity, with minicomputers such as the Altair 8800 and the IMSAI 8080 released in the early 1970s.
203	Affordable home computers began appearing in the late 1970s with the arrival of the "1977 Trinity": the Commodore PET, the Apple II, and the TRS-80.
204	Most shipped with a variety of pre-made games as well as the BASIC programming language, allowing their owners to program simple games.Hobbyist groups for the new computers soon formed and PC game software followed.
205	This further impacted sales of high-quality games, since consumers would be drawn to purchase bargain-bin priced games over quality games marked at a regular price.At the end of 1983, several factors, including a market flooded with poor-quality games and loss of publishing control, the lack of consumer confidence in market leader Atari due to the poor performance of several high-profile games, and home computers emerging as a new and more advanced platform for games at nearly the same cost as video game consoles, caused the North American video game industry to experience a severe downturn.
206	Nintendo released its Nintendo Entertainment System in the United States in 1985, helping to rebound the failing video games sector.
207	Furthermore, the widespread adoption of the PDP-10, released by Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) in 1966, and the portable UNIX operating system, developed at Bell Labs in 1971 and released generally in 1973, created common programming environments across the country that reduced the difficulty of sharing programs between institutions.
208	Perhaps the most significant game of the period was Colossal Cave Adventure (or simply Adventure), created in 1976 by Will Crowther by combining his passion for caving with concepts from the newly released tabletop role-playing game (RPG) Dungeons & Dragons (D&D).
209	Within the year, Taito and Sega released Pong clones in Japan by mid-1973.
210	Midway's version, released in 1975, was the first arcade video game to use a microprocessor rather than discrete TLL components.
211	In 1975, Magnavox reduced the part count of the Odyssey using a three-chip set created by Texas Instruments and released two new systems that only played ball-and-paddle games, the Magnavox Odyssey 100 and Magnavox Odyssey 200.
212	The next year, General Instrument released a "Pong-on-a-chip" LSI and made it available at a low price to any interested company.
213	Taito designer Tomohiro Nishikado, who had developed Gun Fight previously, was inspired by Atari's Breakout to create a shooting-based game, Space Invaders, first released in Japan in 1978.
214	By the late 1990s, the Internet also gained widespread consumer use, and video games began incorporating online elements.
215	Activision, still recovering from the financial impacts of the 1983 video game crash, expanded out to include other software properties for the office, rebranding itself as Mediagenic until 1990.Dial-up bulletin board systems were popular in the 1980s, and sometimes used for online gaming.
216	These services ultimately became obsolete when game producers began including their own online software such as Battle.net, WON and later Steam.The first user interfaces were plain-textsimilar to BBSsbut they operated on large mainframe computers, permitting larger numbers of users to be online at once.
217	Multi-User Dungeon (MUD) originally was developed by Roy Trubshaw and Richard Bartle at the University of Essex in 1978 as a multiplayer game but limited to the school's mainframe system, but was adapted to use ARPANET when the school gained access to it in 1981, making it the first internet-connected game, and the first such MUD and an early title of massively multiplayer online games.While the 1983 video game crash devastated the United States market, the Japanese video game sector remained unscathed.
218	What is the first multiplayer game?<mct>What is the first multi player game?<mct>The first massively multiplayer online role-playing games adapted the new 3D graphics approach to create virtual worlds on screen, starting with Meridian 59 in 1996 and popularized by the success of Ultima Online in 1997 and EverQuest and Asheron's Call in 1999.
219	The impact of wider availability of the Internet led to new gameplay changes, changes in gaming hardware and the introduction of online services for consoles.The phenomenon of user-created video game modifications (commonly referred to as "mods") for games, one trend that began during the Wolfenstein 3D and Doom-era, continued into the start of the 21st century.
220	The most famous example is that of Counter-Strike; released in 1999, it is still one of the most popular online first-person shooters, even though it was created as a mod for Half-Life by two independent programmers.
221	Sega attempted one more foray into console hardware with the Dreamcast in 1998, notably the first console with a built-in Internet connection for online play.
222	Nintendo developed the Wii with motion-sensing controls, which helped to draw in non-traditional players and helped to resecure Nintendo's position in the industry; Nintendo followed this same model in the release of the Nintendo Switch.From the 2000s and into the 2010s, the industry has seen a shift of demographics as mobile gaming on smartphones and tablets displaced handheld consoles, and casual gaming became an increasingly larger sector of the market, as well as a growth in the number of players from China and other areas not traditionally tied to the industry.
223	As triple-A video game production became more costly and risk-averse, opportunities for more experimental and innovative independent game development grew over the 2000s and 2010s, aided by the popularity of mobile and casual gaming and the ease of digital distribution.
224	Though these Flash games lack the complexity of gameplay of games on consoles or computers, they were available for free and sparked creative ideas that would carry forward; for example, Crush the Castle directly inspired the popular mobile game Angry Birds, while the founder of Newgrounds, Tom Fulp, teamed with animator Dan Paladin to create Alien Hominid as a Flash game, which they later built upon into the more complete Castle Crashers under the studio The Behemoth.Flash and other in-browser platforms created a new trend in casual games, with limited complexity and designed for shortened or impromptu play sessions.
225	Happy Farm served as direct inspiration for FarmVille, which had over 80 million active users worldwide by 2010.Separately, gaming on mobile devices had limited success until the mid-2000s.
226	A famous mobile game?<mct>Nokia had installed Snake onto its line of mobile phones since the Nokia 6110 in 1997.
227	As phone technology improved, a Japanese mobile phone culture grew around 2003 with games ranging from puzzle games and virtual pet games that use camera phone and fingerprint scanner technologies to 3D games with PlayStation-quality graphics.
228	Older arcade-style games became very popular on mobile phones, which were an ideal platform for arcade-style games designed for shorter play sessions.
229	Namco made attempts to introduce mobile games to Europe in 2003.
230	Developed in 1961 for the PDP-1 mainframe computer at MIT, it allowed two players to simulate a space combat fight on the PDP-1's relatively simplistic monitor.
231	Starting with top-down dungeon crawls like The Dungeon (1975) and The Game of Dungeons (1975), more commonly referred to today by their filenames, pedit5 and dnd, PLATO RPGs soon transitioned to a first-person perspective with games like Moria (1975), Oubliette (1977), and Avatar (1979), which often allowed multiple players to join forces to battle monsters and complete quests together.
232	As Pac Man ignited an even larger video game craze and attracted more female players to arcades, revenues jumped again to $4.9 billion in 1981.
233	It is the first home console to use programmable ROM cartridges - allowing players to swap games - as well as being the first home console to use a microprocessor which reads instructions from the ROM cartridge.
234	Soon many of these gamesat first clones of mainframe classics such as Star Trek, and then later ports or clones of popular arcade games such as Space Invaders, Frogger, Pac-Man (see Pac-Man clones) and Donkey Kongwere being distributed through a variety of channels, such as printing the game's source code in books (such as David Ahl's BASIC Computer Games), magazines (Electronic Games and Creative Computing), and newsletters, which allowed users to type in the code for While hobbyist programming in the United States was seen as a pastime while more players flocked to video game consoles, such "bedroom coders" in the United Kingdom and other parts of Europe looked for ways to profit from their work.
235	Within the United States, Nintendo of America set up a special telephone help line to provide players with help with more difficult games and launched Nintendo Power magazine to provide tips and tricks as well as news on upcoming Nintendo games.Sega's SG-1000 did not fare as well against the Famicom in Japan, but the company continued to refine it, releasing Sega Mark III (also known as the Master System) in 1985.
236	The Neo-Geo was notably the first home console with support for memory cards, allowing players to save their progress in a game, not only at home but also shared with compatible Neo-Geo arcade games.The 1990s were a decade of marked innovation in video games.
237	Sports games such as NBA Jam also briefly became popular in arcades during this period.Further drawing players from arcades were the latest home consoles which were now capable of playing "arcade-accurate" games, including the latest 3D games.
238	Notable games of the period include the tactical combat game Star Trek (1971) by Mike Mayfield, the hide-and-seek game Hunt the Wumpus (1972) by Gregory Yob, and the strategic war game Empire (1977) by Walter Bright.
239	Several influential and best-selling arcade games were released during this period from Atari, Namco, Taito, Williams, and Nintendo, including Asteroids (1979), Galaxian (1979), Defender (1980), Missile Command (1980), Tempest (1981), and Galaga (1981).
240	Mattel settled into second place with roughly 15%-20% of the market, while Magnavox ran a distant third, and Fairchild exited the market entirely in 1979.Another critical development during this period was the emergence of third-party developers.
241	Soon a small cottage industry was formed, with amateur programmers selling disks in plastic bags put on the shelves of local shops or sent through the mail.Mainframe and minicomputer games were still largely developed by students and others during this period using the more powerful languages afforded on these systems.
242	These companies included HAL Laboratory, Square, and Enix, which all later became some of the first third-party developers for the Nintendo Famicom after its release in 1983.Games from this period include the first Ultima by Richard Garriott and the first Wizardry from Sir-Tech, both fundamental role-playing games on the personal computer.
243	This ploy led to the use of processor bit size as a key factor in marketing video game consoles over the next decade, a period known as the "bit wars".Sega released its next console, the Mega Drive in Japan in 1988, and rebranded as the Sega Genesis for its North American launch in 1989.
244	This console war between Sega and Nintendo lasted until 1994 when Sony Computer Entertainment disrupted both companies with the release of the PlayStation.Among other aspects of the console war between Sega and Nintendo, this period brought a revolution in sports video games.
245	Influential games?<mct>Popular games?<mct>Famous games of 21st century<mct>Famous games of last decade<mct>Examples of influential games from this period include Half-Life 2, Portal, Batman: Arkham Asylum, BioShock, Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty, and Resident Evil 4, as well as the first entries in the long-running series Call of Duty and Assassin's Creed.Hobbyist and homebrew game development had been in place since the first home computers in the late 1970s and 1980s, with the shift to shareware by individuals and small development teams in the 1990s, but the importance of console gaming and the rise of 3D game technology had made it initially difficult for individual developers to participate competitively in game development.
246	Intended as an educational computer, the system connected hundreds of users all over the United States via remote terminals that featured high-quality plasma displays and allowed users to interact with each other in real time.
247	This allowed the system to host an impressive array of graphical and/or multiplayer games, including some of the earliest known computer RPGs, which were primarily derived, like Adventure, from D&D, but unlike that game placed a greater emphasis on combat and character progression than puzzle solving.
248	In 1979, Milton Bradley Company released the first handheld system using interchangeable cartridges, Microvision, which used a built-in LCD matrix screen.
249	Numerous games that were already made for the earlier home computers were later ported to IBM PC compatible system to take advantage of the larger consumer base, including the Wizardry and Ultima series, with future installments released for the IBM PC.
250	In contrast to the IBM PC, Apple maintained a more closed system on the Macintosh, creating a system based around a graphical user interface (GUI)-driven operating system.
251	Nintendo wanted to introduce the system into the weak United States market but recognized the market was still struggling from the 1983 crash and video games still had a negative perception there.
252	Working with its Nintendo of America division, Nintendo rebranded the Famicom as the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES), giving it the appearance of a video cassette recorder rather than a toy-like device, and launched the system in the United States in 1985 with accessories like R.O.B.
253	(Robotic Operating Buddy) to make the system appear more sophisticated than prior home consoles.
254	In the late 1960s, a college student Nolan Bushnell had a part-time job at an arcade where he became familiar with EM games, watching customers play and helping to maintain the machinery while learning how it worked and developing his understanding of how the game business operates.In 1966, while working at Sanders Associates, Ralph Baer came up with an idea for an entertainment device that could be hooked up to a television monitor.
255	While not quite as popular in the United States, Space Invaders became a hit as Midway, serving as the North American manufacturer, moved over 60,000 cabinets in 1979.Space Invaders led off what is considered to be the golden age of arcade games which lasted from 1978 to 1982.
256	LCD displays became inexpensive for consumer products by the mid-1970s and replaced LED and VFD in such games, due to their lower power usage and smaller size.
257	As a result, the Atari VCS market became watered down with large quantities of poor quality games.
258	Popular text-based services included CompuServe, The Source, and GEnie, while platform-specific graphical services included PlayNET and Quantum Link for the Commodore 64, AppleLink for the Apple II and Macintosh, and PC Link for the IBM PCall of which were run by the company which eventually became America Onlineand a competing service, Prodigy.
259	The Famicom quickly became a commercial success in Japan, with 2.5 million consoles sold by the start of 1985.
260	Capcom's Mega Man (1987), and Konami's Castlevania (1986) and Metal Gear (1987) also have ongoing franchises, with Metal Gear also considered to be the first mainstream stealth game.With Nintendo's dominance, Japan became the epicenter of the video game market, as many of the former American manufacturers had exited the market by the end of the 1980s.
261	Arcade games experienced a resurgence in the early-to-mid-1990s, followed by a decline in the late 1990s as home consoles became more common.As arcade games declined, however, the home video game industry matured into a more mainstream form of entertainment in the 1990s, but their video games also became more and more controversial because of their violent nature, especially in games of Mortal Kombat, Night Trap, and Doom, leading to the formation of the Interactive Digital Software Association and their rating games by signing them their ESRB ratings since 1994.
262	It ignited the growth of the arcade game industry in the United States from both established coin-operated game manufacturers like Williams, Chicago Coin, and the Midway subsidiary of Bally Manufacturing, and new startups such as Ramtek and Allied Leisure.
263	Pac-Man, released in 1980, became a popular culture icon, and a new wave of games appeared that focused on identifiable characters and alternate mechanics such as navigating a maze or traversing a series of platforms.
264	The initial market for these new consoles were initially modest as consumers were still wary after the saturation of dedicated home consoles.
265	However, there was still newfound interest in video games, and new players were drawn to the market, such as Mattel Electronics with the Intellivision.
266	In contrast to the dedicated home Pong consoles, programmable cartridge-based consoles had a higher barrier of entry with the costs of research & development and large-scale production, and fewer manufacturers entered the market during this period.This new line of consoles had its breakthrough moment when Atari obtained a license from Taito to create the Atari VCS version of the arcade hit Space Invaders, which was released in 1980.
267	Between the BBC Micro, the ZX Spectrum, and the Commodore 64, a new wave of "bedroom coders" emerged in the United Kingdom and started selling their own software for these platforms, alongside those developed by small professional Small publishing and distribution companies such as Acornsoft and Mastertronic were established to help these individuals and teams to create and sell copies of their games.
268	The IBM PC was designed with an open architecture to allow new components to be added to it, but IBM intended to maintain control on manufacturing with the proprietary BIOS developed for the system.
269	On some multiuser BBSs (where more than one person could be online at once), there were games allowing users to interact with one another.SuperSet Software created Snipes, a text-mode networked computer game in 1983 to test a new IBM Personal Computerbased computer network and demonstrate its abilities.
270	Others failed to settle, and Magnavox won around $100 million in damages from these patent infringement suits before the patents expired in 1990.Arcade video games caught on quickly in Japan due to partnerships between American and Japanese corporations that kept the Japan companies abreast of technology developments within the United States.
271	Japanese companies began developing novel games and exporting or licensing them through partners in 1974.
272	Games like Pac-Man, Donkey Kong and Q*bert also introduced the concept of narratives and characters to video games, which led companies to adopt these later as mascots for marketing purposes.According to trade publication Vending Times, revenues generated by coin-operated video games on location in the United States jumped from $308 million in 1978 to $968 million in 1979 to $2.8 billion in 1980.
273	Atari sued to stop Activision's activities, but the companies settled out of court, with Activision agreeing to pay a portion of their game sales as a license fee to Atari.
274	Game & Watch spurred dozens of other game and toy companies to make their own portable games, many of which were copies of Game & Watch games or adaptations of popular arcade games.
275	Tiger Electronics borrowed this concept of videogaming with cheap, affordable handhelds and still produces games on this model to the present day.The video games industry experienced its first major growing pains in the early 1980s; the lure of the market brought many companies with little experience to try to capitalize on video games, and contributors towards the industry's crash in 1983, decimating the North American market.
276	In the wake of the crash, Japanese companies became the leaders in the industry, and as the industry began to recover, the first major publishing houses appeared, maturing the industry to prevent a similar crash in the future.Activision's success as a third-party developer for the Atari VCS and other home consoles inspired other third-party development firms to emerge in the early 1980s; by 1983, at least 100 different companies claimed to be developing software for the Atari VCS.
277	The 1983 crash bankrupted several North American companies that produced consoles and games from late 1983 to early 1984.
278	Among these included Taito's Gun Fight (originally Western Gun in its Japanese release), which was licensed to Midway.
279	This second batch included the VIC-20 and Commodore 64; Sinclair ZX80, ZX81 and ZX Spectrum; NEC PC-8000, PC-6001, PC-88 and PC-98; Sharp X1 and X68000; Fujitsu FM Towns, and Atari 8-bit family, BBC Micro, Acorn Electron, Amstrad CPC, and MSX series.
280	Among the major publishers formed at this time included Electronic Arts, and Broderbund, while Sierra On-Line expanded its own publishing capabilities for other developers.
281	Later systems made use of terminal-control codes (the so-called ANSI art, which included the use of IBM-PC-specific characters not part of an American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standard) to get a pseudo-graphical interface.
282	Nintendo had already released Star Fox in 1993 which included the Super FX graphics co-processor chip built into the game cartridge to support polygonal rendering for the SNES, and the Nintendo 64 included a graphics coprocessor on the console directly.On personal computers, John Carmack and John Romero of id Software had been experimenting with real-time rendering of 3D games through Hovertank 3D and Catacomb 3-D.
283	Improvements would come with Ultima Underworld from Blue Sky Productions, which included floors of different heights and ramps, which took longer to render but was considered acceptable in the role-playing game, and id's Doom, adding lighting effects among other features, but still with limitations that maps were effectively two-dimensional and with most enemies and objects represented by sprites in-game.
284	Similar manufacturers of phones, personal digital assistants and other devices also included built-in games, but these were designed to pass the time and not as engaging.
285	Reasons included the challenge and massive expense of creating consoles that were graphically superior to the then-current generation, with Sony and Microsoft still looking to recoup development costs on their current consoles and the failure of content creation tools to keep up with the increased demands placed upon the people creating the games.On June 14, 2010, during E3, Microsoft revealed its new Xbox 360 S or Slim.
286	By mid-1975, large-scale integration (LSI) microchips had become inexpensive enough to be incorporated into a consumer product.
287	Atari, meanwhile, entered the consumer market that same year with the single-chip Home Pong system.
288	Atari's consumer sales almost doubled from $119 million to nearly $204 million in 1980 and then exploded to over $841 million in 1981, while sales across the entire video game industry in the United States rose from $185.7 million in 1979 to just over $1 billion in 1981.
289	Optical media, and specifically the CD-ROM, had been first introduced in the mid-1980s for music distribution and by the early 1990s, both the media and CD drives had become inexpensive to be incorporated into consumer computing devices, including for both home consoles and computers.
290	By 1997, the first consumer dedicated 3D graphics cards were available on the market driven by the demand for first-person shooters, and numerous 3D game engines were created in the years that followed, including Unreal Engine, GoldSrc, and CryEngine, and establishing 3D as the new standard in most computer video games.The 1991 release of Capcom's Street Fighter II popularized competitive one-on-one fighting games.
291	If the consumer liked the game, they could then pay for the full game.
292	Solid state drives (SSDs), which had been used for flash card storage for video game consoles in the past, had advanced far enough to become consumer options for large volume storage.
293	In exchange, Tencent had helped these companies refine their monetization approaches using their past experience with their own games.Virtual reality (VR) systems for video games had long been seen as a target for VR technology and had been in development as early as the 1990s, but had been hampered by their high cost and impractical for consumer sales.
294	Aside from Pac-Man and its sequel, Ms. Pac-Man (1982), the most popular games in this vein during the golden age were Donkey Kong (1981) and Q*bert (1982).
295	Sega also introduced its first mascot characters, the Opa-Opa ship from Fantasy Zone in 1986 and later replaced by Alex Kidd via Alex Kidd in Miracle World in 1986, though neither gained the popular recognition that Mario had obtained.
296	Handheld games become more popular throughout the decade, thanks in part to the release of the Game Boy in 1989.
297	While these games were popular in the early 1980s, the prohibitive cost of laserdisc technology at the time limited their success.
298	Its success led to a wave of other popular fighting games, such as Mortal Kombat and The King of Fighters.
299	Increasing numbers of players waited for popular arcade games to be ported to consoles rather than pumping coins into arcade kiosks.
300	Wolfenstein 3D and Doom are the formative games of the first-person shooter (FPS); the genre itself had gone by "Doom clones" until about 2000 when FPS became the more popular term.
301	Sega has placed a great deal of emphasis on the 32-bit Sega Saturn, released in 1994, to follow the Genesis, and though initially fared well in sales with the PlayStation, soon lost ground to the PlayStation's larger range of popular games.
302	Atari and Magnavox followed suit in 1977 and 1978, respectively, with the release of the Atari Video Computer System (VCS, later known as the Atari 2600) and the Magnavox Odyssey 2, both systems also introducing the use of cartridges.
303	Groups like the Homebrew Computer Club in Menlo Park, California envisioned how to create new hardware and software from these minicomputer systems that could eventually reach the home market.
304	Companies like Mattel Electronics, Coleco, Entex Industries, Bandai, and Tomy made numerous electronics games over the 1970s and early 1980s.Coupled with inexpensive microprocessors, handheld electronic games paved the way for the earliest handheld video game systems by the late 1970s.
305	Many of these systems found favor in regional markets.These new systems helped catalyze both the home computer and game markets, by raising awareness of computing and gaming through their competing advertising campaigns.
306	In Japan, systems like the MSX and the NEC PC line were popular, and several development houses emerged developing arcade clones and new games for these platforms.
307	The bedroom coders had since formed development teams and started producing games for these systems professionally.
308	These included Bullfrog Productions, founded by Peter Molyneux, with the release of Populous (the first such god game), DMA Design with Lemmings, Psygnosis with Shadow of the Beast, and Team17 with Worms.While the second wave of home computer systems flourished in the early 1980s, they remained as closed hardware systems from each other; while programs written in BASIC or other simple languages could be easily copied over, more advanced programs would require porting to meet the hardware requirements of the target system.
309	As a result, it did not have the same market share as the IBM PC compatible, but still had a respectable software library including video games, typically ports from other systems.The first major video game publishers arose during the 1980s, primarily supporting personal computer games on both IBM PC compatible games and the popular earlier systems along with some console games.
310	The first graphical adventure games from Sierra On-Line such as Mystery House, using simple graphics alongside text, also emerged around the same time.
311	The space trading and combat simulation game Elite by David Braben and Ian Bell introduced a number of new graphics and gameplay features, and is considered one of the first open world and sandbox games.
312	Both computers had more advanced graphics and sound capabilities than the prior generation of computers, and made for key platforms for video game development, particularly in the United Kingdom.
313	While the CPU was still an 8-bit system, the TurboGrafx-16 used a 16-bit graphics adapter, and NEC chose to heavily rely on marketing the system as a "16 bit" system to differentiate it from the 8-bit NES.
314	While these games had existed since the first arcade and console games, their limited graphics required gameplay to be highly simplified.
315	It was a decade of transition from raster graphics to 3D graphics and gave rise to several genres of video games including first-person shooter, real-time strategy, and MMO.
316	Major developments of the 1990s include the popularizing of 3D computer graphics using polygons (initially in arcades, followed by home consoles and computers), and the start of a larger consolidation of publishers, higher budget games, increased size of production teams, and collaborations with both the music and motion picture industries.
317	Both games were considered killer apps to help standardize the CD-ROM format for PCs.In addition to the transition to optical media, the industry as a whole had a major shift toward real-time 3D computer graphics across games during the 1990s.
318	Rogue, the namesake of the roguelike genre, was developed in 1980 by Glenn Wichman and Michael Toy who wanted a way to randomize the gameplay of Colossal Cave Adventure.Handheld electronic games, using all computerized components but typically using LED or VFD lights for display, first emerged in the early 1970s.
319	The crash set the stage for Japan to emerge as the leader in the video game industry for the next several years, particularly with Nintendo's introduction of the rebranded Famicom, the Nintendo Entertainment System, back into the U.S. and other Western regions in 1985, maintaining strict publishing control to avoid the same factors that led to the 1983 crash.Following the success of the Apple II and Commodore PET in the late 1970s, a series of cheaper and incompatible home computers emerged in the early 1980s.
320	The first 4X (short for "Explore, Expand, Exploit, Exterminate") strategy games also emerged during this decade, popularized by Sid Meyer's Civilization in 1991.
321	The origin of music video games emerged with the PlayStation game PaRappa the Rapper in 1997, coupled with the success of arcade games like beatmania and Dance Dance Revolution.
322	While Street Fighter II and other fighting games of the 1990s had introduced organized video game competitions earlier, professional esports emerged from South Korea around 2000, with many of their events around current fighting games and various RTS games like StarCraft and WarCraft III.
323	Sites like Kongregate and developers like PopCap, Zynga and King emerged as leaders in this area.
324	The biggest hit was The Sims by Maxis, which went on to become the best selling computer game of all time, surpassing Myst.As social media sites started to grow, the first social network games emerged on social platforms.
325	Since then, numerous games have gained or were released with cross-platform play support across consoles, computers, and mobile devices.The first cloud gaming services emerged in 2009.
326	While the handheld received modest success in its first year of production, the lack of games, screen size and video game crash of 1983 brought about the system's quick demise.In 1980, Nintendo released the first of its Game & Watch line, handheld electronic games using LCD screens.
327	Arcade establishments expanded out to include other entertainment options, such as food and drink, such as the adult-oriented Dave & Buster's and GameWorks franchises, while Chuck E. Cheese's is a similar type of business for families and young children.In 1989, Nintendo released the cartridge-based Game Boy, the first major handheld game console since the Microvision 10 years earlier.
328	Several rival handhelds made their debut in the early 1990s, including the Game Gear and Atari Lynx (the first handheld with color LCD display).
329	While some of the other systems remained in production until the mid-1990s, the Game Boy and its successive incarnations, the Game Boy Pocket, Game Boy Color and Game Boy Advance, were virtually unchallenged for dominance in the handheld market through the 1990s.
330	By 2011, Activision had stopped publishing Guitar Hero games (though returned one time in 2015 with Guitar Hero Live), while Harmonix has continued to develop Rock Back after a hiatus between 2013 and 2015.Nintendo still dominated the handheld games market during this period.
331	However, mobile gaming also displaced the handheld console market: both the Nintendo 3DS and the PlayStation Vita (both 2011 releases) had major drops in sales from their predecessors, the Nintendo DS and PlayStation Portable respectively (both 2004 releases), following the rapid growth of mobile gaming.
332	Sony has since exited the handheld console arena.As a result of the larger budgets and better technology, new narrative-driven games emerged to incorporate larger stories as more direct components of gameplay, such as by eliminating pre-rendered cut scenes in favor of scenes carried out within the game's engine.
333	Again, staying with their past blue ocean strategy to focus on innovation rather than technical superiority of their competitors, Nintendo released the Nintendo Switch in 2017, one of the first hybrid consoles, with the ability to be played as a handheld device but also can be placed into a docking station connected to a television and played like a home console.
334	Japan was once the epicenter of gaming culture.
335	Indie developers are trying to make it great again James Mielke, a game developer and former video game journalist who started BitSummit after working in Japan, puts the decline down to a number of reasons, including the shift from arcade hardware to more powerful consoles like the Xbox.
336	"Sega was able to make their games on the most powerful graphics hardware available, but then arcades started dying down and people started playing less in arcades and started playing at home because the consoles were getting stronger," he says.
337	"So when the Xbox came out with distinctly PC architecture, all these Western developers who were used to developing for PC suddenly had this uniform platform."
338	Keiji Inafune Pixeljunk Eden by Q-Games Additional reporting by Rich McCormick.The Verge is a Vox Media network  2024 Vox Media, LLC.
339	Cold rain drizzles outside.
340	The first floor of this otaku (geek) retailer is plastered with release info for new PC gamesadult PC games.
341	It's not only Kotaku writers who feel this way: "For the longest time, I thought the PC gaming floor at retailers in Japan was the porn floor," says Mark McDonald of Tokyo game localizer 8-4 via phone.
342	A young clerk in glasses near the 18-and-up section taps away on a computer, probably checking inventory.
343	It ultimately has a knock on effect that might mean fewer young developers are willing to strike out on their own and go indie.I'm back in the porn floor, where everything is round and frilly, and the clerk is still checking inventory on the computer.
344	But these games are part of the pulse of the PC gaming scene, however niche that might be, and they provide experiences, albeit adult ones, players cannot get on consoles.I ask the clerk what games he likes.
345	I approach, excusing myself for asking a sudden, if not seemingly random question: "Why is PC gaming in Japan so niche?"
346	The shop is located in Den-Den Town, Osaka's geek and gaming district, on a street known as "Ota Road", short for "otaku road".
347	It's not that those Western PC games don't exist; they just don't smack you in the face.When many Japanese gamers think of the country's PC gaming industry, the kneejerk reaction is to think of either dating or Western games.
348	"The image of PC gaming with many Japanese gamers is first-person shooters," the clerk replies, agreeing that it is niche in Japan.
349	"That," he continues, "and they think PC gaming is expensive."
350	PC gaming wasn't always niche in Japan.
351	Electronics makers reappropriated the word "computer" for home consoles, and in the process left PC gaming behind.With multiple domestic playersNintendo, NEC, SNK, Sega, Sony, etc.all making hardware in Japan for Japanese players, consoles eventually took over.
352	Like many developers at that time, erotic games were a gaming experience players could largely get only on PC.
353	It's easy to stumble into shops like this and find an array of dating games, some of which are erotic.
354	The vast majority of these games are not exactly mainstream in Japan, but their presence is palpable in a geek neighborhood like this.
355	But what Western gamers think of PC gamesthe games from developers like Valve and Blizzardaren't.
356	So when Japanese gamers think of video games, they most likely think of the default: the most famous or most popular games.
357	The walls that get thrown up for so many Japanese players are years of being accustomed to getting their games through closed platforms and even the English language, which enables World of Warcraft guides to spring up across the globe, but might make some Japanese players unsure about their own ability to communicate.I think about this as the rain lets up momentarily, and I duck out from underneath the awning and head out onto the street, into a sea of manga readers, anime watchers, and gamers.
358	In your estimation, what was the absolute first video game ever created?Nolan Bushnell: I think it was Willy Higinbothams Tennis for Two, I think thats about 1958-59.BE: Do you know how the term video game came about?NB: I think it was started at the first trade show that Computer Space was at.
359	And I think it was coined by a reporter, and that was in the fall of 1971, when we showed it in Chicago.
360	I think it was the magazine called Vending Times.BE: How much influence did Steve Russells Space War have on you in creating your first video games?NB: Id call it pivotal.
361	He owns a Chuck E. Cheese in San Jose, California, and I think hes doing some sailboat racing and having relatively a good time.BE: What effect do you think video games have had on the development of personal computers?NB: I think very, very significant.
362	I think that  and this will sound very strange  but up until the video games, people didnt really think of being able to control a video image.
363	Nintendo's decision to call its home console the "Family Computer" and release a keyboard and floppy disks for it shows just how much the computer dominated at that time (likewise, so does Sony's decision to name its console arm "Sony Computer Entertainment").
364	Sure, these players might be missing great experiences on PC, but loads of Western PC gaming isn't localized in Japan, so what they are missing doesn't even show up on their radars much of the time.Trawling through Akihabara or Den-Den Town, it can seem like the only PC games you can find are of the ero variety.
365	You walk into a Japanese game shop and, save for a few notable exceptions like Final Fantasy XIV or Phantasy Star Online 2, PC gaming as it exist in the West doesn't have much of a presence.
366	There are those making games, guys like Keiji Inafune of Dead Rising fame, Final Fantasy XIV director Naoki Yoshida, and, of course, numerous staffers at Bayonetta developer Platinum Games, who very much believe in PC gaming.
367	Despite the macabre imagery, these games didn't diverge much from their more brightly colored cousins.
368	"I didn't want it to be that much of an action game," Tunnell explains.
369	The game was released with minimal hype and advertising, and failed to make much of a splash.
370	A third Alone in the Dark was released in 1994, avoiding some of the pitfalls of its predecessor, but still failing to recapture the original's greatness.Horror Defined Alone in the Dark's success was too much to ignore.
371	Likewise, Sega has found success with its Phantasy Star Online games.The Enix arm actually started out making erotic games in the early 1980s.
372	But as Enix developed as a company, it stopped making erotic games and focused on role-playing games for consoles.
373	And since consoles locked out much of the adult content, the PC remained a bastion for erotic games, offering players experiences they could not get on home consoles.There's definitely an audience for online gaming in Japanit just doesn't feel as palpable as in the West.
374	"Now, I only play browser games," says Shima, who works as an artist in Tokyo.
375	My 19-year-old daughter, who's my neighbour on FarmVille, says she's grown up with The Sims and other computer games, and she sees FarmVille as a free version of that."
376	This, says Chatfield, "was a way to get people playing one another across time as well as space."
377	will let people play games with high fun and social delivery," says Chatfield, "but which can be done in small amounts of time, picked up and put down, with long-term aims to keep you hooked."
378	"We want to build a service that people will love and trust and keep using for many years  and feel comfortable letting their children use," says Pincus.
379	The graphics get better, but gameplay hasnt changed in years, says Martin Goldberg, editor of the news site Classic Gaming I see more people going back to simpler games or more creative games where the graphics dont matter.
380	Most out-of-circulation games  including arcade machines like Crazy Climber  now run on one of these emulators, but Goldberg says something is lost blasting Asteroids at your desk.
381	"If GoldenEye is the equivalent of being in a Bond film, then Half-Life is the experience," says Joao Sanches.
382	Thus, unless you are hardcore into Western games (and increasingly, dedicated Japanese gamers are into Western games), there isn't much motivation to venture beyond the mainstream.
383	In the West, some gamers might turn their nose up at these types of games, deriding them as simple pornography.
384	It's got an iconic look, it's widely accessible, it allows gamers to create their own stories, and perhaps most engrossing of all, has an initial simplicity and ease of play that quickly gives way to a complexity as deep as the mines you'll soon find yourself digging.Yet I don't think that's the only reason the game has been such a hit.There are plenty of games that offer experiences just like those above that would count themselves lucky to sell half that many copies.
385	And they're usually more polished to boot.But those games are spat out of a machine, one that many serious and long-time gamers have grown increasingly wary of.
386	It showed that games existing outside of the blockbuster production mill didn't have to be tiny, niche affairs that went unrecognised by the press and ignored by most gamers.It gave life to a community where gamers could gather in substantial force around a game safe in the knowledge their enthusiasm was being generated by the community about the game and not the other way around.Minecraft, then, is just a front.
387	That's because in Japan the PC gaming scene is still niche compared to gaming on consoles or mobile devices.
388	With a smaller indie scene in Japan and fewer developer mechanisms, that means it's harder to find the next Kenta Choor, perhaps, it confines more of their work to mobile platforms.
389	Other actions typically involved clicking on one of eight choices Examine, Open, Close, Speak, Operate, Go, Hit, Consumethen clicking on an object in the scene or in your inventory.
390	In the UK, the main indie scene in the 80s was on cassette based 8-bit systems like the ZX Spectrum, with publishers happily accepting almost any old tat, recording it to a tape, sticking it in a box, and selling it for a few pounds at newsagents, game stores, and anywhere else that would take copies.
391	This was the era that gave us the likes of Team Fortress (1996) and Defense of the Ancients (2003), but also where the indie scene became largely forgotten.
392	However, despite selling reasonably well, none of them gained much traction or saw many releases.The indie scene as a whole ceased to be a big player in the marketwhich isnt to say that it vanished.
393	Again, its not that it was never used, but until this point the scene wasnt big and important enough to warrant a position as basically a shadow industry in its own right.
394	The release of Cave Story in 2004 was where people really started talking in those terms, with Indie Game: The Movie in 2012 cementing this, highlighting three of the most successful titles of the timeBraid, Fez and Super Meat Boy.Microsoft embracing the scene via Xbox Live Indie Games played its part, as did their XNA development system, and attempts to make a big deal out of indie launches during its "Indie Game Uprising" events between 2010 and 2012.Elsewhere, the IGF (Independent Games Festival) launched in 1999 was also going from strength to strength, drawing more attention to the likes of Darwinia, Monaco and Crayon Physics Deluxe.
395	Earlier this year, I had the chance to interview Nolan Bushnell, career entrepreneur and nigh-but-legendary founder of Atari.
396	Despite being such a grab bag of topics, I figured the interview was worth publishing in its entirety while it still feels relevant.
397	Bushnells thoughts deserve to be heard, especially since he took time out of his busy schedule to share them.This interview took place on March 30th, 2007 over the telephone.Benj Edwards: Id like to start out first just talking a little bit about early video games.
398	Still, Gaskell's interview is the first sign that Nintendo would be OK with Wii U games communicating with other consoles, rather than just with computers and mobile phones.
399	For the last seven years, Bushnell has been pouring most of his energy into his latest venture, uWink  a sort of Chuck E. Cheese restaurant for adults.Of course, being the history buff I am, I wanted Bushnell to clear up some things regarding articles I was working on at the time.
400	Yeah, you could do word processing and a few things like that  you know, VisiCalc on the Apple.But I really think then, because it was IBM, it seemed OK to put into business.
401	It was one of those things where you thought you were doing the right thing.BE: I guess with the Apple II they didnt build in an RF modulator, so they didnt have to comply with that.NB: No, it wasnt that.
402	He also patented a couple of things that we invented.
403	And I did some things and I should get credit for them.
404	I think some of the things that Nintendo did with Donkey Kong and that  you know, there was a certain lack of technical innovation after I left Atari, and it was picked up by the Japanese.And so, in some ways, would it have been different if I hadnt sold Atari?
405	One of the big things that happened is that the United States market was really trashed in 1983 because of some bad business decisions that Atari made.
406	That is until Nintendo finetuned things a bit, expanded on the world, and continued the story with chilling and emotional twists with Tears of the Kingdom.Photo by Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY staff Nominations: two High ranking: 19 MM: The characters, story and gameplay made for one of the most memorable gaming experiences of any Nintendo 64 title.
407	To be exact, it was November, 1971.BE: Do you have any idea what reporter it was that might have coined the term?NB: No, but I know the magazine.
408	I didnt get as many chances as I wanted.BE: Was Computer Space a raster-based game, or did it use a vector display?NB: It was raster.BE: So you used an ordinary television set that you took apart and interfaced with?NB: Thats correct.BE: Ive heard a lot about your former neighbor Joe Keenan and Kee Games, and I am wondering why we havent heard more from him in the history side.
409	There are a lot of processes that go along in starting up the video game, playing the video game, closing it down, scoring, various things.
410	I think there was a lot of standing on the shoulders, so to speak.
411	It was, in a lot of ways, a significantly superior machine to the Apple II; it had sprites.
412	And if you ever tried to look at a television set next to an Apple II, there was an awful lot of junk coming out of all of the PCs at the time.
413	I knew that we were going to try to do something in the PC some day, but we were just selling as many video games as we could build, and so it didnt make a lot of sense for us to distract ourselves at that point in time.BE: It seems like you might have a bit of a grudge against Ralph Baer.
414	In the patent lawsuit, I presented my lab book in evidence.He also likes to make a lot of talk about the fact that Atari licensed his patents.
415	It had nothing to do with There have been a lot of opportunities to be on the same panel discussion, and if Im going to be there, Ralph doesnt show up.
416	Is he still in good health?NB: Yeah, Joe is kind of retired.
417	And so all the other PC companies, including Apple, were not Type 1 compliant, which gave them the ability to put in a good parallel bus and made the Apple II much more extensible.
418	And thats good enough, you know?
419	I think Zelda was a very good game.
420	The graphics on the video games has always led the technology of the PC, and so virtually all the graphics steps forward were derived because of the game business and its intersection with the PC.BE: Do you think video games or business applications were more important in the adoption of personal computers among the general population?NB: There were really two parallel paths that happened.
421	And then the business usage really exploded at that point.
422	I would say, within a few years, business uses had exceeded the game uses.
423	And so, to get a paid-up license for less than my attorneys fees, that was just a good business decision.Anyway, thats why I sound like Im a little irritated by it.
424	The fun thing about business is that its never static.BE: That brings us to uWink in a way.
425	Would the Japanese dominate the business like they do now?Benj, I did read your article and it was quite good.
426	And that's a fear you can understand, if you take a look back at business practices in the industry.
427	Players who generally rented games were completely out of luck with the new business model.
428	And I dont know what the ratios were, but lets say that the video games had a 100% market share until the PC.
429	And then I think you have to wait until about the early 90s, with the multimedia PC, as it was called then, to say that all of the sudden the game usages of the PC became very important.
430	So, when I had my new engineer, I assigned him to fix that game: to make a ping-pong game that was in fact fun, which we did.BE: You improved it.NB: When you say I improved a game in which a ball goes back and forth, which for Ralph to claim the invention of that, he has to go back to Willy Higinbotham.
431	So I think its disingenuous for him to say that Im the no-show.
432	Because nobody can say they cant show up for a conference call.BE: Thats an interesting idea.
433	We recognize that PS4 players have been eagerly awaiting an update, and we appreciate the communitys continued patience as we have navigated through this issue to find a solution.That path begins today, with an open beta for Fortnite thatll let PS4 players go up against people on the Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac and mobile.In perhaps an admission as to why this has taken so long, when the competition has allowed it for ages, Sony adds that This represents a major policy change for SIE, and say therell be more information on other titles going forward when we have more details to share.It would make sense that its been a policy challenge rather than a technical one, since cross-play between PS4 and Xbox One was accidentally turned on last year before being quickly disabled.Update - 12:06 PM: Weve reached out to major third-parties to see if their games will start incorporating PS4 into their cross-play offerings.
434	They sound into it but say we should ask Sony about this.
435	And that happened throughout the 90s.
436	Pong happened to be successful, and so he wants to claim that.
437	I wonder what would have happened if Bushnell didnt sell Atari.
438	And later, it was on the drawing boards  it was architected and designed while I was there  but it really didnt hit the market heavily until after I had left.BE: Did you ever use an Atari 800 and like it?NB: Yeah, I did.
439	But he was very quiet at Atari.BE: He told me that you guys still see each other every once in a while.NB: Oh yeah.BE: Do you ever regret not taking up the Apple guys on doing their computer at Atari?NB: Well, it wasnt ever really offered to us.
440	We are having people that have never played a video game ever playing games in our place.
441	You really have to cross your Ts and dot your Is long before you ever start on the project.
442	Dude, if I ever see him at an expo, Ill pop him in the jaw for you.Nice interview, btw.
443	With a myriad of choices to make and more customization options than ever before  including upgradeable and moddable weapons and gear  Odyssey puts you at the centre of a truly wonderful journey.
444	With its distinct style and structure, gothic melodrama, and abilities like summoning familiars and shapeshifting into a mist, the game won over critics and fans, and we haven't stopped playing it ever since.
445	Almost two decades later, and no other entry in the series has ever quite lived up to its brilliance.Release: 2009 | Developer: Naughty Dog This was the moment when Drake cemented himself as the most charming of action heroes.
446	So we had this big cast thing and only serial ports, and that was all to hit the FCC regulations that turned out to have no teeth at all.
447	Somehow I wish that you guys could get together and talk and at least be civil or friendly towards each other.NB: The real problem with the whole thing is that its a tempest in a teapot.
448	Its kind of fun to have the whole family or dinner guests to sit around and bowl after dinner.We are doing the same thing .
449	How did that originate?NB: Well, the issue really is that, if you listen to Ralph, he invented all this wonderful technology and then, one day, I sort of fell off a turnip truck, bounced twice, came in and saw the Odyssey and started a video game empire, from ending up in the Mountain View showroom.When in reality, if you really look at the time lines, I started designing video games in the middle 60s while I was a college student, and I have a signed and witnessed lab book to prove it, and that Id already been in the market selling product for a year and a half before the Magnavox showing.I saw the Magnavox project.
450	Ralph likes to claim that he invented Pong, which he didnt.
451	He invented Odyssey, which was a marketing failure.
452	Ask him who invented Simon, who invented the light gun?BE: I was going to ask you about the Touch Me thing.
453	By Steve Mullis German-American game developer Ralph Baer shows the prototype of the first games console which was invented by him during a press conference on the Games Convention Online in Leipzig, Germany in 2009.
454	But I dont think he should claim authorship of it.The original game of Touch Me came from a small prototype that came from an engineering skull session with Grass Valley.
455	How do you feel about the Japanese essentially dominating the video game market from the late 80s until now?NB: Well, I think that they did some really, really cool, fun games.
456	Nintendo, these days with their Wii, seems to share your philosophy about making games that are fun for everybody to play, like a social experience.
457	And as we roll out our restaurants, we think that well get a lot of people playing games and having fun that would never have done so otherwise.BE: Id like to ask you one last question.
458	Whether playing on an easy or hard difficulty setting, as an Elf Ranger or an Undead Conjurer, as a helpful adventurer or a murderous thief, DOS2 is a fun fantasy world to get lost in no matter what.Dishonored managed to breathe new life into a faltering stealth genre by invigorating players with a host of magical abilities and wickedly clever tools for every occasion.
459	It's this combination of light and dark that makes Final Fantasy VII such an enduring JRPG classic.There are plenty of entries in the Assassins Creed franchise that could find their way onto a Top 100 list, but for our money doubloons, Black Flag was as much fun as weve had in the franchise.
460	Its naval combat and oceanic exploration offered boundless fun on the high seas, and there still hasn't been a historical guest star that rivaled the likes of Blackbeard or Mary Read.When Monkey Island 2 came out, we knew who Guybrush Threepwood was, so we knew what to expect.
461	While the excellent Summoners Rift stands as the primary battleground for competitive play, the other modes like ARAM, or All Random All Middle, also provide a great means for a fun chance to practice with Champions for when things get too tense.Developer Riots initiative to reboot League of Legends lore has also made it more captivating on the narrative front as well.
462	Ultimate, and all the teams involved in its creation, is that they have found a way to serve both those audiences at the same time, delivering a fighting game that is just as fun for the casual audience, as it is for the hardcore crowd.Skyrim was a pivotal turning point for me and my over twenty-year love affair with role-playing games.
463	What do you think history gets wrong about you the most?NB: I think the difference between what my perceptions of me and what the worlds perception is  I think they think of me as sort of this creative guy, who has this light bulb go off, and all of a sudden, I go out and do these things.
464	Gamasutra had a feature on the history of Atari with a promise of two more.
465	But players couldnt just run and blast their way through the world, as puzzle-solving was a key mechanic throughout.Nominations: two High ranking: 10 MM: Mortal Kombat not only had fun combat and memorable characters (Scorpions kunai and get over here voice line are iconic), it was also one of the most controversial titles in gaming history due to its violent nature that could only be fully attained with a blood code that veterans of the franchise can still recite off the top of their heads today (A, B, A, C, A, B, B).
466	OOC is one of the best gaming experiences in the history of video games.Nominations: five High ranking: two DB: Already one of the best video game franchises of all-time, Super Mario 64 took things to a new level with its 3D platforming and control style.
467	My perception is that Im a guy who really does a lot of homework surrounding any project that I do.
468	To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.James Paul Gee VIEW Games, not school, are teaching kids to think.The US spends almost $50 billion each year on education, so why aren't kids learning?
469	Consequently, kids aren't learning how to think anymore - they're learning how to memorize.
470	Fortunately, we've got Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Deus X for that.After school, kids are devouring new information, concepts, and skills every day, and, like it or not, they're doing it controller in hand, plastered to the TV.
471	The fact is, when kids play videogames they can experience a much more powerful form of learning than when they're in the classroom.
472	They tend to encourage players to achieve total mastery of one level, only to challenge and undo that mastery in the next, forcing kids to adapt and evolve.
473	If kids were to say that about a science lesson, our country's education problems would be solved.VIEWHigh Score EducationAre full-body scans the last word in preventive medicine?Can the DMCA be Fixed?The New Cold WarShifting Into Overdrive Aarian Marshall Will Knight Scharon Harding, Ars Technica Scott Gilbertson Matt Reynolds Matt Reynolds Matt Reynolds Aarian Marshall Nicole Tisdale Dell Cameron Matt Simon Dell Cameron More From WIRED Reviews and Guides  2024 Cond Nast.
474	Forty percent of students lack basic reading skills, and their academic performance is dismal compared with that of their foreign counterparts.
475	In response to this crisis, schools are their way "back to basics," moving toward mechanical instruction methods that rely on line-by-line scripting for teachers and endless multiple-choice testing.
476	Just ask anyone who's beaten Legend of Zelda or solved Morrowind.The phenomenon of the videogame as an agent of mental training is largely unstudied; more often, games are denigrated for being violent or they're just plain ignored.
477	Young gamers today aren't training to be gun-toting carjackers.
478	They're learning how to learn.
479	This carefully choreographed dialectic has been identified by learning theorists as the best way to achieve expertise in any field.
480	Game designers don't often think of themselves as learning theorists.
481	Kids often say it doesn't feel like learning when they're gaming - they're much too focused on playing.
482	That sounds like something for their rsums.The secret of a videogame as a teaching machine isn't its immersive 3-D graphics, but its underlying architecture.
483	In cognitive science, this is referred to as the regime of competence principle, which results in a feeling of simultaneous pleasure and frustration - a sensation as familiar to gamers as sore thumbs.
484	Game coders aren't trained as cognitive scientists.
485	Cognitive scientist Andy diSessa has argued that the best instruction hovers at the boundary of a student's competence.
486	Most schools, however, seek to avoid invoking feelings of both pleasure and frustration, blind to the fact that these emotions can be extremely useful when it comes to teaching kids.Also, good videogames incorporate the principle of expertise.
487	How did videogames become such successful models of effective learning?
488	They're in the cognitive-science dark ages.We don't often think about videogames as relevant to education reform, but maybe we should.
489	This doesn't happen much in our routine-driven schools, where "good" students are often just good at "doing school."
490	Reasons for this vary, but often arise from the player not maintaining a PC within the group and playing the NPC for a session or from the player's PC being unable to act for some time (for example, because the PC is injured or in another location).
491	These "non-players" are often distinguished from player characters by avatar appearance or other visual designation, and often serve as in-game support for new players.
492	NPC speeches of this kind are often designed to give an instant impression of the character of the speaker, providing character vignettes, but they may also advance the story or illuminate the world around the PC.
493	Games revolving around including visual novels, dating sims such as Tokimeki Memorial, and some role-playing games such as Persona, often give choices that have a different number of associated "mood points" that influence a player character's relationship and future conversations with a non-player character.
494	These games often feature a day-night cycle with a time scheduling system that provides context and relevance to character interactions, allowing players to choose when and if to interact with certain characters, which in turn influences their responses during later conversations.In 2023, Replica Studios unveiled its AI-developed NPCs for the Unreal Engine 5, in cooperation with OpenAI, which enable players to have an interactive conversation with unplayable characters.
495	"NPC while mimicking the behaviors of an NPCbecame popular on TikTok in 2023 and was largely popularized by livestreamer Pinkydoll.On the Internet, the term NPC is often used as an insult to suggest that some people are unable to form thoughts or opinions of their own.
496	Such people are often characterized as being similar to NPC Wojak, who is a grey-faced, expressionless Internet meme.NPC streaming is a type of livestream that allows users to participate in and shape the content they are viewing in real time.
497	Game companies don't rake in $6.9 billion a year by dumbing down the material - aficionados condemn short and easy games like Half Life: Blue Shift and Devil May Cry 2.
498	Consumers in Germany spent 5.87 billion on video games over the course of 2021, a 3 percent year-on-year increase from 2020.
499	Designers respond by making harder and more complex games that require mastery of sophisticated worlds and as many as 50 to 100 hours to complete.
500	Today's games are anything but easy, the 24-year-old will tell you.
501	And to get through the intricate, challenging, mind-numbing levels of "City of Heroes" and "The Godfather," two games he's currently stuck on, he needs help.
502	I don't want to get stuck coming around the same corner 50 times.
503	"I cheat on all the games I play," Graves says proudly.Here's the ugly, sometimes dirty, often-overlooked truth in games: Everyone cheats.
504	If you grew up playing the shoot-'em-up game "Contra" on your Nintendo Entertainment System, chances are that cheat is forever frozen in your brain.
505	In many instances, cheating is built into the game.
506	Or log on to MyCheats.com, a Wikipedia for the gaming set, the latest in the growing crop of sites that promote cheating in games.
507	"A thing worth having is a thing worth cheating for," W.C. Fields once said.
508	GameFaqs.com, one of the most popular game-cheating sites, recently listed it atop its "top 10 most memorable cheats" in gaming history.Says Jeff Veasey, an editor at GameFaqs: "I hate to admit it, but cheating is a part of playing games."
509	Is cheating less objectionable when you don't have to pay for it?
510	When roaming the online "World of Warcraft," is cheating warranted so long as the only one affected is you?
511	For example, buying weapons on eBay instead of earning them in the game?Is cheating ever okay?
512	It's a multimillion-dollar industry, legally sanctioned.
513	Well, at least most of it.You can flip through magazines such as Tips & Tricks, which boasts of its "Cheat Code Blowout!"
514	Or buy 150-page strategy guides, the Cliffs Notes of gamers, which last year drew $67 million in sales, according to the NPD Group.
515	Never mind Sophocles' approach: "I would prefer even to fail with honor than win by cheating."
516	When it comes to games, all bets are off.
517	"This is what I tell people all the time, and I'm actually pretty adamant about it: I don't play games to necessarily play the game," Graves says.
518	"I play it for the story line.
519	I play it for the mechanics.
520	I play it for the graphics.
521	You can have smartphone players play against them.
522	Back in August, the developers of Cubemen 2 revealed that the upcoming Wii U version of the game would allow for cross-platform play with users on the PC, Mac, Linux, and Android versions.
523	Of course, either Sony or Microsoft would also have to be amenable to this state of affairs to get the cross-console play working.Microsoft is also making vague gestures toward the idea of supporting more cross-platform play, at least for PC players.
524	In a recent interview with AusGamers, Microsoft Studios General Manager Phil Harrison was asked whether increased cloud capabilities and similar architectures might lead to more shared online play between games on Xbox One and PC.
525	Graves is a network engineer by day and a hard-core gamer by night, clocking an average of four hours in front of his PC or his Xbox in his Alexandria home.Remember "Up, Up, Down, Down, Left, Right, Left, Right, B, A, (Select) Start"?
526	As in, looking up a code on the Internet, where it's free, versus dropping$16.99 for a copy of the strategy guide for "Madden NFL 2007"?
527	The expansion of Project Ten Dollar became the Online Pass.New games would come with a single-use code inside the package, just like Project Ten Dollar.
528	Games like Driver: San Francisco worked like EA's titles, locking players out of online play if they lacked the single-use code packed in with new releases.
529	Some players warned that content that was normally in the game would be locked behind a code in the future.After three years of using the system, Electronic Arts was also the first to step up and kill it.
530	Like films, games featuring "unconstitutional" symbols can now be submitted for age-rating in Germany Germany has softened its stance against video games featuring Nazi symbols.
531	Following a regulatory change, any game tackling the subject can now be assessed by the classification board.Previously, games like Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus had to be changed to meet a requirement that video games did not feature symbols and themes associated with "unconstitutional organisations" - which, in reality, mostly applied to stories about World War II and the rise and fall of the Nazi party.However, according to Game, the German games industry trade body, the national authorities will allow the Entertainment Software Self-Regulation Body (USK) to apply age ratings to video games that include such content - "effective immediately."
532	From now on, video games "that depict symbols of unconstitutional organisations" will be assessed case-by-case by the USK, to decide whether they meet the "social adequacy clause" laid out in section 86 of the German Criminal Code - essentially, that the use of "those symbols serve an artistic or scientific purpose, or depict current or historical events."
533	"Computer and video games have been recognised as a cultural medium for many years now, and this latest decision consistently cements that recognition in terms of the use of unconstitutional symbols as well.
534	Other media, such as film and literature, have been free to include similar content for many years, but this decision marks a change in the standing of video games as a cultural form in Germany.
535	"This new decision is an important step for games in Germany," said Felix Falk, MD of game, in a statement.
536	That milestone was apparently marked when the Wii sailed past 20 million consoles sold after just 31 months on the market, although that number is of course just a small part of the more than 50 million consoles shipped worldwide which, incidentally, has already made the Wii the fastest-selling console in the world.Meta is starting to bring the Threads API online, though it will still be some time before its widely accessible to developers.Apple has walked back its decision to remove home screen web apps in the European Union (EU).
537	"We have long campaigned for games to finally be permitted to play an equal role in social discourse, without exception.
538	"We in the games industry are concerned about the tendencies we see towards racism, antisemitism and discrimination.
539	We are strongly committed to an open, inclusive society, to the values laid out in the German constitution, and to Germany's historical responsibility."
540	| This Week in Business News Brazilian games industry grew by 3.2% in 2023 News City State Entertainment is now Unchained Entertainment News Nintendo's Yuzu lawsuit puts emulation in the spotlight | Opinion News GamesIndustry.biz's South Africa Games Week starts this Monday News Radical Forge lays off "handful" of staff News Toys For Bob splitting from Activision Blizzard News The resource for people who make and sell games.GamesIndustry.biz is owned by Gamer Network Limited, a ReedPop company and subsidiary of Reed Exhibitions Limited.
541	From BioShock to The Path to Braid, we take a look at the rise of the 'art house' video game.Almost since its inception, video gaming has striven for mainstream acceptance.
542	Now, mainly thanks to the work of first Sony and more recently Nintendo, its gradually evolved from a specialist pursuit into a mass-market pastime enjoyed by young and old, male and female.
543	Certainly among the specialist press, theres almost an obsession with getting video games recognised as an art form, andFlower briefly became another poster-child for this movement.
544	Yet as gamings popularity increases, more mainstream and specialist reporting of these unique titles will emerge, giving them much-needed publicity and thus increasing their commercial viability.
545	But just as it starts to overtake Hollywood commercially, an increasing number of developers are endeavouring to push the medium in purely artistic terms.
546	Thats why the rise of the art house game is one of the most exciting developments in modern video gaming.Its fair to say that the PC is the bedrock of gaming creativity, thanks in the main to its accessibility, both from a programming standpoint and the nature of digital distribution.
547	A blockbuster made with an art house sensibility, Bioshocks story was influenced by Objectivist philosophy, most notably referencing Ayn Rands famous novel Atlas Shrugged.
548	And with digital distribution likely to become ever more prominent in the coming years, it seems the rise of the art house game can only continue.
549	There is some superb software available too, for game creation, and thats leading to some really interesting new titles, such as The Path.Inspired by Little Red Riding Hood, it turns the fairytale into a kind of oblique psychological horror, with six girls of different ages facing their own metaphorical wolves as they journey to their grandmothers house.
550	Events are left open to player interpretation, while interaction is often awkward and unnatural, but thats seemingly the intent.Most commentators agree that The Path represents a girls journey from childhood through adolescence to adulthood  its rare for a game to touch upon such themes, and while The Path is hardly an unqualified success as a game, its a fascinating piece of interactive art.
551	And, available to download for just 7.25 from Steam its not going to break the bank for gamers looking for something a little more cerebral than the average shoot-em-up.With the current generation of consoles now supporting digital distribution, the three major platforms are also starting tohost more experimental content.
552	After all, Valve is best known for its work with PC games and the creation of the Steam download serviceboth of which are largely irrelevant in Japan.
553	But even before free-to-play MMORPGs Of course, the vast majority of PC gaming around the world these days is done through download services like Valve's Steam or EA's Origin.
554	Available in free and subscription-based varieties, Xbox Live allows users to play games online; download games (through Xbox Live Arcade) and game demos; purchase and stream music, television programs, and films through the Xbox Music and Xbox Video portals; and access third-party content services through media streaming applications.
555	On January 5, 2011, Xbox Live reached over 30 million subscribers.The Xbox Live Marketplace is a virtual market designed for the console that allows Xbox Live users to download purchased or promotional content.
556	What is the purpose of video game trailer?<mct>In order to download priced content, users are required to purchase Microsoft Points for use as scrip; though some products (such as trailers and demos) are free to download.
557	Users are able to view items available to download on the service through a PC via the Xbox Live Marketplace website.
558	Launched in the United States on November 22, 2006, the first anniversary of the Xbox 360's launch, the service allows users in the United States to download high-definition and standard-definition television shows and movies onto an Xbox 360 console for viewing.
559	Sony has arguably been the most successful in leveraging such titles for its PlayStation 3 console, investing in independent developers with some truly creative minds.Perhaps its most successful signing was the small California-based thatgamecompany, in a contract which would see the developer create three games for Sonys PlayStation Network (PSN) download service.
560	Its clear that as video gaming matures, developers are seeking new ways of pushing the envelope.Even Nintendo  recently something of a pariah among hard-core gamers for its increasing focus on a mass-market audience  has encouraged more experimental games, most notably Art Style titles, available on the download services for both Wii and thenew DSi.The series takes a reductionist approach to gaming  stripping games down to their most basic elements, presenting titles with simplistic controls and mechanics, and utilising highly stylised, minimalist audio-visuals.
561	From 1986-1988, the SMS and NES had roughly the same number of titles which people have found worth mentioning.
562	The video game market in Germany grew by 6 percent to 6.2 billion ($6.7 billion) in 2019.The annual Gamescom in Cologne is the world's largest video game expo by number of attendees.German production of popular video-games began principally on the 16-bit systems such as the Commodore Amiga and Atari ST in the 1980s, although a number of successful titles were also released on the Commodore 64 which dominated the 8-bit computer market in the country at the time.
563	Blue Byte and Factor 5 remain in existence in 2006 and produce titles for Windows PCs.By 2002, German games were heavily tilted toward construction and management simulations, according Der Spiegel's Frank Patalong.
564	The titles began the Anno series.One of the most famed titles to come out of Germany is Far Cry by Frankfurt-based Crytek, who also produced Crysis.
565	The first, flOw, was ahuge success at the PSNs launch, its low price undoubtedly encouraging gamers to try a game that would ordinarily have been atough sell  after all, you dont see too many games about the evolution of aquaticmicroorganisms topping the charts.
566	Both systems were also released nation wide in the United States in 1986.19 Yet technical superiority affects the market success of a console very little.
567	These include Noby Noby Boy, a surreal sandbox plaything, and the beautiful Linger In Shadows, an alluring piece ofinteractive real-time art inwhich the usercan move certain objects and light sources, and guide the camera with gentle tilts ofthePS3s motion-sensitive controller.flOws spiritual successor, Flower, was released just a few months ago to great critical acclaim, with reviewers excitedly discussing the question of whether it could be considered art.
568	This even carried over to the packaging  tiny cardboard boxes with simple logos and retro-chic designs which have become highly collectable among gaming connoisseurs.
569	The game gradually reduces visual cues until the player is entirely reliant on their ears to perceive the location of the sound.Even big-budget games likeKen Levines critically acclaimed Bioshock are attempting to broaden gamings horizons.
570	The 50 games we ended up agreeing upon span decades, from some of gamings earliest hits to a 2020 indie that stands toe-to-toe with foundational classics.
571	The games well-documented twist turns gaming conventions on their head, questioning the nature of player interaction and giving its narrative meaning through gameplay.
572	Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile Playing videogames has become a key strategy for coping with stress, a study of millennial gamers has revealed.Researchers who quizzed 1,000 gamers on their attitudes to gaming found 55 per cent play videogames because it helps them to unwind and relieve stress.And 47 per cent think performing well in a game has a positive impact on their lives outside of the screen, allowing them to look upon other aspects of their lives more positively.And half said they see the value in gaming as a method of escapism to help them deal with daily work pressures.Luke Hales, general manager of the Dave TV channel , said: Weve loved watching stars come together and unleash their competitive sides across the three series of Dara O Briains Go 8 Bit to date.This survey is incredibly revealing in showing the positive mental benefits of getting together for a gaming session.
573	Start your Independent Premium subscription today.Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Log in New to The Independent?Or if you would prefer:Want an ad-free experience?Hi {{indy.fullName}}
574	Dave surveyed 1,000 gamers aged 18 to 30 ahead of the brand new series of Dara O Briains Go 8 Bit, which returns Monday 12th February at 10pm.The results of the study show gaming as a social pursuit, with three in five of those surveyed playing specifically to join friends or an established clan to play with.It also emerged the average gamer has made three friends through gaming, either through playing together or in the surrounding community and culture.Sixty per cent of those surveyed consider gaming a key component of their social life.And almost a quarter believe they have made more friends through their interest in gaming than through any other area of their life, making it their core social outlet.The study also explored other potential benefits of gaming, such as improvements to mood, reflexes and social skills.A third of gamers play for the sense of achievement or accomplishment it gives them.And 42 per cent said they feel at their happiest when they are performing well in a videogame, receiving a greater rush from their victories than comparable achievements in real life.Another 27 per cent believe playing video games has helped them to process or deal with a mental health issue or concern.Thirty seven per cent agree playing a game online with other people has helped to increase their levels of confidence.One fifth think playing games has helped them to hone their problem-solving abilities, and 28 per cent believe their hobby has made a positive impact on their reflexes and coordination.To aid their immersion in the game, and to lose themselves more easily in the activity, one in four gamers make their player avatar look as close to their own likeness as possible in role playing games.Twenty per cent think Action & Adventure games are the easiest genre of games to get immersed in, followed by Puzzle games and Role-Playing game.Games in the Action & Adventure category were also considered the best to help relieve stress, followed by Shooter games and Puzzle games.Hales added: For those looking for support, gaming as a hobby can offer a confidence-boosting sense of achievement which may be lacking in other aspects of their lives.Its also a great way to interact with people who have similar interests, socialise and make friends, and its a shame this side of pastime if often passed over by the media in favour of a negative headline.
575	clockThis article was published more than2 years ago What do you want to see from Launcher in 2021 and beyond?
576	Three years later, a similar end came for Disney Interactive Studios, the companys first-party development team.In a 2019 earnings call, CEO Bob Iger acknowledged that the company is best at making movies, not games.
577	Shoptaw spoke to a large room of developers, encouraging them to pitch original stories that could have a place within Disney universes.Weve had various models over the years of vertical development, co-development, licensing, Shoptaw told The Post in a recent interview.
578	One of the things weve done very well and was a major break from how things were done in years past, was to pivot from being a brand police to much more of a collaborator and consultancy, Ong said.
579	He was 92.Video games have become a ubiquitous, billion-dollar industry that has in recent years surpassed the movie business.
580	It's a contentious conversation by design, one that we thought we'd take on in celebration of the video game industry turning 50 years old.In collaboration with the Golden Joystick Awards, GamesRadar+ has assembled a list of what it believes to be the ultimate games of all time.
581	For the first time in the series' history, you can also choose between protagonists Kassandra and Alexios to explore Odysseys' in-depth story set years before The Order came into the equation.
582	So popular is Epic Games' ubiquitous video game  one that has spread its tendrils into real world merchandising, pop-star crossovers, and high-street fashion, among many other extracurricular ventures  that it's hard to believe it's only a little over four years old.
583	The two had met the day before following Disneys acquisition of Twentieth Century Fox, and they were feeling inspired.The chat over lunch went well  so well, in fact, it would cement the foundation of a new partnership.
584	Disney would soon visit Ubisoft Massive in Sweden, and Ubisoft Massive would then be invited to Lucasfilms Bay Area studios to formalize a pitch.The result: An open-world Star Wars game from the makers of The Division.
585	That deal expires in 2023, and Disney has started looking for new publisher and developer partners beyond EA.According to EAs chief studios officer Laura Miele, nothing has changed outside of the expiring exclusivity deal, and Miele doesnt feel threatened by new development teams working alongside Disney.We have other deals and other projects that were working on, even outside of this contract ," Miele said.
586	Disneys goal going forward, Shoptaw said, is to empower video game studios like Ubisoft and Bethesda to create original stories within the larger framework of a Disney franchise and to partner with game studios that have a deep passion for Disney brands theyd work on.Jay Ong, an executive vice president at Marvel Entertainment and head of Marvel Games, reflects that his company, too, has learned plenty through the years.
587	By 2020, the company would employ more than 3,500 staff at its studios in Montreal and Quebec City.
588	Vivendi completely divested its shares in Ubisoft by March 2019.Since 2018, Ubisoft's studios have continued to focus on some franchises, including Assassin's Creed, Tom Clancy's, Far Cry, and Watch Dogs.
589	A Ubisoft Star Wars game is far from the only large-scale licensed game on the horizon, and neither is it the only case for close collaboration between entertainment conglomerates and video game makers.
590	For many years, licensed games were often movie tie-ins made by small or mid-tier studios with little care for quality.
591	Lately, however, mega publishers have turned to licensed properties with more ambition and excitement.
592	Superhero video games?<mct>Current super hero video games?<mct>Renewed interest followed the success of games like Marvels Spider-Man, the fastest-selling superhero game in American history, and these days, game creators like Electronic Arts, Ubisoft and Insomniac are developing with more frequent access to filmmakers and producers.These changes didnt happen overnight.For many years, licensed games have been perceived as a quick way to make money, said Mark Caplan, who has worked in the video game licensing business for 25 years at Sony Pictures and Twentieth Century Fox.
593	What we want from Ubisoft Massives open world Star Wars game Because of that stigma, publishers would want to assure players that a licensed product is worth their time.
594	By 2009, Marvel created the specialized internal team of Marvel Games, composed of veteran game developers, to help steer licensed products in the right direction, much like other Disney-owned teams do (i.e.
595	But recent licensed games dont always equal success.
596	well have a potential partner come say, were interested in working with Marvel, and its not even a genre we were thinking about at all, Ong said.Like game development as a whole, theres no way of ensuring a product will be a success, but Ong and his team have learned the best chance for a licensed game to be profitable is by prioritizing talent rather than optimizing terms of a deal  another major pivot for Marvel over the last few years, Ong said.Does the quality of games matter?
597	Caplan is now the founder of consulting firm Ridge Partners, where he provides licensing guidance across several types of media.
598	Today, Disney no longer develops games internally, focusing its efforts on licensing and partnering with external studios.
599	LucasArts  now Lucasfilm Games  was reformed and rebranded as a team overseeing licensing for many Lucasfilm-owned properties.In 2013, EA entered a deal with Disney, allowing the video game publisher to exclusively develop Star Wars console and mobile blockbusters.
600	According to Caplan, generally the most expensive licensing hes seen was upward of $40 million, and the lowest, particularly for lesser known or newer IPs, was around $100,000.What we try to do is work with our publishing partner to figure out a low, medium and high number based upon forecast projections and running numbers to see how things would net out, Caplan said.
601	Caplan dubbed the most egregious instances logo slapping, noting that games tied to movie or media release dates often greatly restricted the games development timeline.
602	The people who were the creative on the game side never met the people who were the creators on the movie side, because there was a business arrangement in the middle, he said.At the annual D.I.C.E.
603	For example, movie tie-in content with restrictive deadlines has mostly moved to the mobile market, where developers can produce a product more quickly than a full-fledged console game.Those were exceptionally difficult to do well, because of time frames that dont match and you cant really attract the caliber of development talent you need, Ong said.
604	The creativity is relatively constrained to what the movie is.
605	Rather than movie tie-ins, filmmakers are considering more deeply how to expand their worlds through interactive entertainment in ways that feel novel, or as an extension to what fans experience in a movie theater.I think that the level of success weve seen from some of the most recent blockbuster games demonstrates that investment can truly pay off in the ongoing engagement for players and the longevity of these games, unlike a film which is really at some level make or break from their opening weekend and the few weeks after, Lightstorm Entertainments president of franchise development Kathy Franklin said.
606	Its a quick way to get it out there, turn it around and theres no real effort put into the game or to make it stand out among the rest.
607	Our job is to help make the games more authentically Marvel, and thats it.
608	This put enough pressure on the player and cast enough doubt that it created a tense game that could genuinely make you jump, despite the primitive blobs and boxes that made up its graphics.
609	"At Dynamix, we were working with Electronic Arts," Tunnell recalls, "and if you remember back in the day, Trip Hawkins asked 'Can a computer make you cry?'
610	We thought, 'Well, that might be kind of hard, but maybe it could make you feel fear.'"
611	The graphics were limited, so Dynamix was forced to make the most of them, as well as find other ways to inspire fear.
612	"It's not like we were great writers or anything, we just tried to make a sci-fi game that would be scary."
613	Enemies didn't even make their presence known until 15 or so minutes into the game.
614	Ubisoft, for example, made clear before the release of South Park: Fractured But Whole that the creators of the television show were really, really involved in the making of the game.
615	In the process, the company discovered that the creators at film studio Lightstorm Entertainment were already involved with Ubisoft on an upcoming Avatar game.
616	The 2009 release of Batman: Arkham Asylum, from London-based studio Rocksteady, was one of the turning points: Licensed games were becoming more polished, and creating a blueprint for future developers.People are much more understanding and wanting to be part of the games industry now than ever before, on the creative side and on the film side, Caplan said.Disneys relationship with video games, for example, has been rocky.
617	Among the most important for Spider-Man is that he does not kill.Behind the scenes: The PlayStation 5 aims to deliver a whole new feel to games Despite working as a Disney subsidiary, Marvel Games calls itself fairly autonomous; they make creative calls with partnered game studios, but also decide which games are best for which platforms.
618	So my view on it is, we just have a long-standing creative partnership and collaboration with Lucasfilm and Disney.
619	But we had to have a creative collaboration and a creative partnership together to do something meaningful.
620	With that knowledge, Disney seized an opportunity and set up the lunch meeting with Ubisoft Massive.It evolved into a discussion of, OK, how could we look into another collaboration on another franchise which has the same qualities as Avatar?
621	Disney was inspired by the strong chemistry and close collaboration between Ubisoft Massive and Lightstorm.
622	We always said to each other, we did not want to run this partnership by the letter of a contract, nor did we want the relationship to be transactional.
623	Another partnership with Philips yielded a few Nintendo-themed games for the CD-i platform instead of the SNES-CD.After the SNES-CD was canceled, Sony developed its own new and unrelated console using the PlayStation name.
624	The next day, Nintendo revealed its partnership with Philips at the show, which surprised the audience, including Sony.While Nintendo and Sony attempted to resolve their differences, between two and three hundred prototypes of the PlayStation were produced, and software for the system was being developed.
625	The specifications from the prototype are different from those published in the March 1993 edition of Electronic Gaming Monthly.After the original contract with Sony failed, Nintendo continued its partnership with Philips.
626	The broken partnership with Sony has often been cited as a mistake by Nintendo, effectively creating a formidable rival in the video game market as a consequence of Sony's and Kutaragi's shrewd determination to break into the market.
627	We had the contract and that was what two corporations needed to have.
628	The result of the deal would be a CD-ROM add-on for the Super NES and for a Sony-branded console called PlayStation that would play both SNES cartridges and Super Disc games.Development of the format started in late 1988, when Nintendo signed the contract with Sony.
629	To counter the proposed agreement, Yamauchi sent Nintendo of America president Minoru Arakawa and executive Howard Lincoln to the Netherlands to negotiate a more favorable contract with Philips.
630	This contract provisioned Philips with the right to feature Nintendo's characters in a few games for its CD-i multimedia device, but never resulted in a CD-ROM add-on for the SNES.
631	Now its part of the canon.This unusual arrangement marks a break from the past, according to Polfeldt.
632	And then we come up with a comparable, reasonable arrangement between the two parties.
633	Ong, who began working there in 2014 and shaped a new leadership direction, says hes helped the 18-strong team pivot from being what he calls brand police.
634	Rather than forcing a game development team to use certain assets from the Marvel Cinematic Universe or from the original looks of the comics, for example, those have now become open discussions for what fits best for each game.
635	At Marvel Games, Ong recognizes certain genres and platforms are more profitable (Contest of Champions is their biggest hit on mobile, and single-player action adventure is the most successful format on console), but he steers clear of what his team internally calls IP bingo,  matching certain IPs to specific genres.
636	We have a saying: Its not guaranteed that a great team is going to make a great game, but it is guaranteed a mediocre team cannot make a great game.
637	The team ran low on money and showed signs it might fold.When Squares first Final Fantasy game hit the Famicom in 1987, that luck started to change.
638	He always asked for a lot from the team and gave us tight schedules, but he backed up those requests with big teams and the best hardware.
639	Square team members Yoshinori Kitase and Tetsuya Nomura had begun to take leadership roles over day-to-day work on the Final Fantasy series, seeing through Sakaguchis high-level plans and story ideas.
640	At Square, he set up a new graphics pipeline and hired a team of engineers,initially working on the Final Fantasy 6: The Interactive CG Game tech demo.
641	Electronic Arts reportedly has grossed a whopping $3 billion in revenue from all its Star Wars games, including those before its exclusivity deal.
642	Despite EA shipping only a handful of Star Wars blockbusters on console during the exclusivity contract, canceled projects like Project Ragtag from Visceral and adding controversial microtransactions to Star Wars Battlefront II, both EA and Disney consider the partnership a success  and have the sales numbers to show it.
643	The EA mobile game Galaxy of Heroes is a billion-dollar entity.Disney declined to say how much EA paid for the Star Wars exclusivity deal.
644	As night follows day, as prayers follow thoughts, so talk of video game violence follows a mass shooting, that most inevitable of American news stories.
645	Video game violence is the effect, not the cause; it is the mirror, not the window.If sense followed madness, this would be the end of it.
646	This reframed a depiction of earnest violence in the language of video game fictional violence.
647	As English football clubs discovered in the 1970s and 1980s, its relatively easy to steer young men who adopt a shared, confrontational group dynamic toward collective violence and racism.Just as football fans were turned into hooligans by those who sought to co-opt and direct their disaffection, today recruiters target disaffected, vulnerable adolescent white males on web forums.
648	As Constance Steinkuehler, former advisor on video games to Barack Obamas White House once put it, Video games are not a gun violence problem.
649	For those who believe that North Americas mass shooting-epidemic can only be treated by more stringent gun controls it was a talking-point designed to distract from a solution staring the rest of the world in the face.
650	No, video games do not cause mass shootings.
651	With a mass shooting every day of the year, is it any wonder that the American video game industry has become so entrenched in its defensive position that, seemingly, it has not allowed itself the space for more nuanced self-reflection?Nuanced self-reflection is welcome following the attack on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, in March.
652	The positioning of the camera gave the footage the precise appearance of a First-Person Shooter, a style of video game where the weapon nods front and centre-screen (the genre is colloquially known as the shooter, a term shared with the perpetrator of mass shootings).
653	Video games do not cause mass shootings, but when lonely individuals spend hours each day using digital replicas of commercial weapons to gun down digital replicas of human beings for digital rewards the industry may have something of an optics issue.
654	Nevertheless, efforts to situate these discussions in the aftermath of a mass shooting, are in bad faith.
655	For video game fans, many of whom have endured a lifetime of defending a hobby that is seen, at best, as a harmless waste of time or, at worst, unsightly onanism enjoyed by the socially bereft, it was the inevitable buckshot of political blame.Thus cornered, the video game industry shot back with an unequivocal statement: Blaming video games distracts from the broader issues at hand, said Renee Gittins, executive director of the International Game Developers Association, the worlds largest advocacy organization for the industry.
656	Video games do not cause violence.
657	The ease with which a radicalized murderer was able to reference the visual language of video games while carrying out his murders should be enough to cause game developers to ponder their contextualization (or lack thereof) of their screen violence.The video game industry could do more, too, to root out toxic behaviour within its communities.
658	Billions of people play violent games every day without being inspired to replicate their on-screen actions in earnest.
659	But combine violent fantasies underpinned by expertly crafted compulsion loops designed to offer a potent escape from the responsibilities of life, and then set those games within the toxic context of web-based culture wars and you have created, as Trump argues, a perilous environment for a troubled youth.
660	The clich that video games turn young men into violent sociopaths was scorned by the Christchurch killer who wrote, in the faux-earnest patois of the internet troll, that Fortnite trained me to be a killer.
661	If video games caused mass shootings there would have been a massacre in every town from Delhi to Dubai.
662	And yet, curiously, mass shootings are almost entirely limited to the country where assault rifles are sold in supermarkets.
663	Yet until the obvious cause of mass shootings is addressed (the ready availability of guns is the only reliable predictor of gun violence), the conversation about video games and murder must continue, seemingly, indefinitely in America.The frustration of the situation, at least for any serious video game critic (that is, someone who hopes to interrogate, not merely advocate the medium they love) is that there are meaningful conversations to be had about video games and their relationship to particular kinds of violence.
664	It calculatingly turns the conversation away from the most pressing issues  gun control and the radicalization of young white men  while simultaneously shutting down more nuanced discussion about the thematic obsessions and aesthetics of gun-orientated video games.
665	The shooters aesthetic choice was considered and probably helped the footage spread virally among a young audience (a spokesperson for Facebook said the company removed 1.5 million videos containing footage of the shooting in the 24 hours following the incident).Video games did not inspire the New Zealand shooter to murder 51 people in the name of white supremacy.
666	Tarrant had drawn, in white marker, numerous far-right slogans and references on the guns he used during the attack.
667	Steve Bannon, founder of the right-wing media organization Breitbart News and former Trump advisor described video game players as rootless white males with monster power and viewed online message boards as hothouses for the alt-right.8chan, the message board where both the Christchurch and El Paso shooters announced their killing sprees rose to prominence in 2014, in part as a place to discuss video game culture apart from the threat of moderation.
668	Those who exhibit curiosity about white nationalist talking points or express frustration withfeminists, anti-racism activists and social justice warriors are then escorted through a funnel of increasingly racist rhetoric, wrote Megan Condis, a professor of communication at Texas Tech, in an op-ed for the New York Times.
669	designed to normalize the presence of white supremacist ideology and paraphernalia through the use of edgy humor and memes.
670	Some video game communities, in other words, have given risen to a new brand of digital hooliganism.Video games do not cause mass shootings, but when mass shooters announce their plans and manifestos on video game-related message boards frequented by white nationalists, the industry may have something of a communities issue.
671	The murderer, Brenton Tarrant, live streamed the massacre from a helmet cam.
672	The day after the shooting one Twitter user asked, jokingly, whether Tarrants weapon skins would be available to download in the future.
673	It was a reference to the fact that many competitive shooting games, including Call of Duty and Fortnite, allow players to customize their virtual weapons with artwork, like stickers or paint, applied to the gun.
674	Companies such as Riot Games have developed tools that punish players who use racist or abusive language, but many video game message boards have become targets for those who seek to co-opt disaffected young men with a radical or violent agenda.
675	How a Japanese comic gave birth to a video game genre When you hear the words battle royale, most people in 2018 immediately think of the trigger-happy Plunkbat or the cheery Fortnite.
676	Japanese games like Danganronpa, Higurashi and the Zero Escape series are all spawns of this same genre: visual-novel shaped battle royales focused on solving puzzles, befriending colourful characters and reading too much dialogue.
677	But a decade ago, those same words only evoked bleak battles between crying teens, fought on the black-and-white pages of a manga -- a Japanese comic.Art doesnt exist in a vacuum.
678	Now, Japan absolutely loves multimedia franchises; when a work becomes popular, it often gets adapted to multiple mediums -- anime, live action TV series, manga -- in an attempt to reach an even wider audience.
679	Takami got the offer to pen a manga adaptation, and used the occasion to expand upon the original material.Its not reading for the easily disgusted.
680	The manga also gives characters more space to tell their backstories, so we can feel even worse when they all die.
681	It cant be really considered good, and yet its difficult to forget.It sold like hotcakes.The novel also got a movie adaptation, but the manga is the version that got widely exported to the West.
682	Teens in a dystopian setting overthrow the government ultimately became a genre in its own right, giving birth to countless Young Adult novels.Meanwhile in Japan, a manga called Liar Game started publication in 2005 -- a year after the end of the Battle Royale manga.
683	They all share the same DNA as Fortnite, though as games they couldnt be more different.For years, murder games were mostly produced in Japan, raised under a sheltering canopy of rich manga influences.
684	Thats why to understand the rise of battle royale games, we must start from the cult manga Battle Royale.Battle Royale started as a novel nobody wanted, rejected by the Japan Horror Fiction award due to its extreme content.
685	The rules of those first battle royale games are an exact replica of those of the original Battle Royale story: the shrinking map, the need to scavenge for weapons, and a fight that will have only one survivor.Our world has changed so much since the publication of the original Battle Royale, and yet we are still enamoured by the same basic concept.
686	In the book, a class of middle school teens is kidnapped and transported to an island, where they are forced to fight each other in a deathly game organised by the government.
687	Characters die and injustice reigns, but teens armed with bright ideas can ultimately change the status quo.
688	Stuck in the middle of the ocean, and choked by collars that will explode if they try to rebel, the protagonists must choose between killing their friends or getting killed by them.In 1999, Battle Royales author Koushun Takami managed to find a publisher, and the novel became a surprise best seller in Japan.
689	Artist Masayuki Taguchi depicts every killing with a sort of perverse glee, meticulously inking every bloodstain, every tear, every drop of mucus.
690	The official English translation, though, somewhat defanged the original plot: publisher Tokyopop purged all political references from the story, making the plot revolve around a deadly television game instead.Kids forced to kill each other in a deadly television game is also the premise of famous novel/movie Hunger Games, released a few years later.
691	Its about people forced to join a dangerous game where violence is non-existent, and losers suffer a fate even worse than death: A LIFE OF ETERNAL DEBT.In Liar Game, each contestant is forced to join assorted mind games where money can be gained and lost.
692	Thus, the survival game genre was born: stories about a bunch of people, usually teens, forced to play a game while being monitored by some higher force.There are countless of them: Gantz, Btoom!, As the Gods Will, Osama Game, Doubt, Alice in Borderland.
693	The similarities have been pointed out numerous times, though Hunger Games author, Suzanne Collins, has stated she never read Battle Royale.The two works may look alike at a first glance, but the way they handle their political elements couldnt be more different.
694	In the original Battle Royale manga, the deadly game was a brutal display of force by the government, a way to instil terror in the population, to curb morale and suffocate revolts.
695	People dont die often, but their lives get shattered as millions change hands.Now, murder games arent an entirely novel concept.
696	But Liar Game was one of the first works where the game part was more important than the murder part.
697	It showed the world you can make a compelling murder game without shredding a drop of blood, as long as you focus on sympathetic characters, moral questions and weird challenges.
698	Most are plain murder games.
699	In a world that feels progressively more hostile, governed by powerful forces outside our control, murder games are both horrific and cathartic: they provide thrills, please our survival instincts, and sometimes also give us the satisfaction of seeing normal people overthrow the status quo.
700	The Saw series was born in 2004, and the movie The Cube can also be considered one of the first examples of the genre.
701	Others are more inventive, like Mirai Nikki (teens with magical diaries fighting to become God), Assassination Classroom (teens have a year to kill their alien teacher, or else he will destroy the Earth) or Magical Girl Apocalypse (evil magical girls killing people).It didnt take long before people realised that this formula was perfect for video games.
702	But in 2016, a Western developer fell in love with the movie adaptation of Battle Royale and realised the formula would work well in a shooter.This is how Playerunknowns Battlegrounds -- and then Fortnite Battle Royale -- was born.
703	But where in Battle Royale the violence was grotesque and politically charged, as teenagers slaughtered each other for survival, Fortnite Battle Royale is now a cheery game loved by school kids.I cant help finding this a bit chilling.Rock Paper Shotgun is the home of PC gaming Sign in and join us on our journey to discover strange and compelling PC games.Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc PC Fortnite Battle Royale Video Game PUBG: Battlegrounds PS4,Xbox One,PC Zero Escape: Zero Time Dilemma Video Game Giada Zavarise Contributor Giada writes for games, and sometimes writes about games as well.
704	She likes comics, cats, and ranting against crafting systems on Twitter.Please enable JavaScript to see comments.Supporters only:Sewer levels have always been the worst, but Star Wars: Dark Forces Remaster's one is an all-time stinker Soulslikers are going to love Ori studio's new ARPG No Rest For The Wicked Balatro's Endless mode is perfect: a fun victory lap before you extremely die Come and join us to chat all things Cobalt Core in today's RPS Game Club liveblog The making of Cobalt Core: how Tabletop Simulator and Inscryption were the secret catalysts behind this clever deckbuilding roguelike What's better: enemies stopping respawning after you kill them loads, or removing a card from your deck?The devs of surreal escape sim Militsioner explain how they've shrunk their giant ambition Supporters only:To survive Skull And Bones, pair it with Catfish Rock Paper Shotgun is owned by Gamer Network Limited, a ReedPop company and subsidiary of Reed Exhibitions Limited.
705	As video-game playing has become a ubiquitous activity in today's society, it is worth considering its potential consequences on perceptual and motor skills.
706	The field of perceptual learning provides many examples of training-induced increases in performance.
707	But perceptual learning, when it occurs, tends to be specific to the trained task; that is, generalization to new tasks is rarely found.
708	It is well known that exposing an organism to an altered visual environment often results in modification of the visual system of the organism.
709	Here we show, by contrast, that action-video-game playing is capable of altering a range of visual skills.
710	Four experiments establish changes in different aspects of visual attention in habitual video-game players as compared with non-video-game players.
711	In a fifth experiment, non-players trained on an action video game show marked improvement from their pre-training abilities, thereby establishing the role of playing in this effect.The ADS is operated by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory under NASA Cooperative Agreement NNX16AC86A
712	Front page layout Site theme Jeremy Reimer - Nov 8, 2005 2:00 am UTC The gaming industry has come a long way since its humble beginnings more than thirty years ago.
713	From a time when people were thrilled to see a square white block and two rectangular paddles on the screen to today, where gamers explore realistic three-dimensional worlds in high resolution with surround sound, the experience of being a gamer has changed radically.The experience of being a game developer has changed even more.
714	In the early 1980s, it was typical for a single programmer to work on a title for a few months, doing all the coding, drawing all the graphics, creating all the music and sound effects, and even doing the majority of the testing.
715	With some advanced computer circuitry, many games are moving away from the flat-sounding beeps and boops of old computer sound toward digital-quality sound.
716	Contrast this to today, where game development teams can have over a hundred full-time people, including not only dozens of programmers, artists and level designers, but equally large teams for quality assurance, support, and marketing.The next generation of consoles will only increase this trend.
717	Game companies will have to hire more artists to generate more detailed content, add more programmers to optimize for more complex hardware, and even require larger budgets for promotion.
718	What is this likely to mean for the industry?This article makes the following predictions:All other market factors aside, the platform most likely to benefit from this situation is the Revolution, since it has the simplest architectural design.
719	Conversely, the platforms that may be hurt the most by this are the PlayStation 3 and the XBox 360, as they may find it difficult to "stand out" against the competition.These are bold statements, and I don't expect it to make it without at least attempting to back it up with a more detailed argument, nor do I expect it to go unchallenged.
720	So the fullness of my argument can best be understood by reading through to the conclusion and would encourage readers to do that prior to engaging in conversation in the discussion thread.I should also add that I fully expect all three next-generation platforms and also the gaming PC to survive and do reasonably well.
721	In fact, I reserved a section at the end of the article where I describe all the problems I could find with my theory.
722	On April 19, 2019, Miucin admitted plagiarism and issued an apology on his YouTube channel.During the 2021 IsraelPalestine crisis, the main IGN site posted an article on May 14 urging readers to donate to charities helping Palestinian civilians such as the Palestine Children's Relief Fund and linked to relevant news reporting.
723	Shortly after the article went up IGN Israel made statements on social media condemning the article.
724	On May 16, the article was deleted and a statement was made on the IGN Twitter account saying that it was wrong to only highlight one side of the conflict.
725	IGN reinstated the article on August 24 under a new headline alongside a statement of newly formalized editorial policies.
726	The console wars will require at least another round after the next one before they have any sort of resolution.
727	At least we will have the satisfaction of knowing that we lived through the period when gaming went through some of its greatest advances.Download the PDF (This feature for Premier subscribers only.)
728	Ultimately, platforms themselves may reach a point where they no longer matter, as most content will be available on every gaming device.
729	Each console maker pays to maintain its own gameplay servers, after all, and closed online gameplay platforms can create powerful network effects, forcing consumers to buy your system if they want to play with their friends.There are some technical and gameplay considerations involved in cross-platform play, too, though none of these are insurmountable if the will is there.
730	Our grandchildren may look at us strangely when we recall the intense and urgent battles between Atari and Intellivision, Nintendo and Sega, and Microsoft and Sony.
731	All rights reserved.
732	It would eventually cause a worldwide scramble for rights and royalties that would last over a decade.
733	It was then spotted by British software company Andromeda.They tried to contact Pajitnov to secure the PC rights, which started a long and protracted negotiation with the Academy of Sciences.In the meantime, the company went ahead and sold-on the rights to Spectrum Holobyte, who launched an IBM PC version in 1987.
734	Rogers ended up with the rights for handheld versions, while Andromeda retained rights for arcade versions  just in time for the demise of the games arcade, thanks in no small part to devices like Nintendos Game Boy.At the same time, Nintendo offered a huge but undisclosed sum to Russia for the console rights.
735	More than 35 million copies are sold.1991  Pajitnov moves to the USA, with help from Rogers, who he had befriended when they met in Moscow during rights negotiations.1996 Rogers and Pajitnov form The Tetris Company to sell and protect the rights to the game.
736	When "widespread growth" of the Internet arrived around 1999, the brothers decided to take advantage of this by founding game studios aimed at online free-to-play titles, including GameLoft; this allowed them to license the rights to Ubi Soft properties to these companies, increasing the share value of Ubi Soft five-fold.
737	The sale included the rights to intellectual properties such as the Myst and Prince of Persia series.
738	The deal marked an end to EA's exclusive rights to make Star Wars titles.
739	Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 1/1/20) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 1/1/20) and Ars Technica Addendum (effective 8/21/2018).
740	Read our affiliate link policy.Your California Privacy Rights | Do Not Sell My Personal Information The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Cond Nast.Ad Choices
741	Pearson uses this information for system administration and to identify problems, improve service, detect unauthorized access and fraudulent activity, prevent and respond to security incidents, appropriately scale computing resources and otherwise support and deliver this site and its services.This site uses cookies and similar technologies to personalize content, measure traffic patterns, control security, track use and access of information on this site, and provide interest-based messages and advertising.
742	Disabling or blocking certain cookies may limit the functionality of this site.This site currently does not respond to Do Not Track signals.Pearson uses appropriate physical, administrative and technical security measures to protect personal information from unauthorized access, use and disclosure.This site is not directed to children under the age of 13.Pearson may send or direct marketing communications to users, provided that Pearson may provide personal information to a third party service provider on a restricted basis to provide marketing solely on behalf of Pearson or an affiliate or customer for whom Pearson is a service provider.
743	The Supplemental privacy statement for California residents explains Pearson's commitment to comply with California law and applies to personal information of California residents collected in connection with this site and the Services.Pearson may disclose personal information, as follows:This web site contains links to other sites.
744	We encourage our users to be aware when they leave our site and to read the privacy statements of each and every web site that collects Personal Information.
745	If the updates involve material changes to the collection, protection, use or disclosure of Personal Information, Pearson will provide notice of the change through a conspicuous notice on this site or other appropriate way.
746	Continued use of the site after the effective date of a posted revision evidences acceptance.
747	Julian Alvarez :Connectez-vous pour contacter le contributeur Soumis le : samedi 11 mars 2023-13:53:19 Dernire modification le : lundi 29 janvier 2024-14:16:21 Archivage  long terme le : lundi 12 juin 2023-18:08:35 Contact Ressources Informations Questions juridiques Portails CCSD
748	These early computer programmers werent just wasting time or looking for new ways to goof off.
749	As an added bonus, computer programmers were able to learn from the creation of games as well because it allowed them to break away from the usual subroutines and challenge the computers capabilities.It was this mindset that led a group of MIT students during the 1960s to create one of the first and most groundbreaking computer games.
750	They had practical reasons to create games.During the 1940s and 1950s, computers took up entire rooms and were so expensive that only universities and large companies could afford them.
751	The result, called Spacewar, caused a sensation on campus and variations on the game soon spread to other universities that had computer engineering programs.Although Spacewar was fun to play, it was never destined for released to the general public, since computers were still too expensive for personal use.
752	Students Steve Russell and his friends were granted access to the schools new PDP-1 computer providing they used it to create a demonstration program that (1) utilized as many of the computers resources as possible and taxed those resources to the limit, (2) remained interesting even after repeated viewings, which meant that each run needed to be slightly different and (3) was interactive.Inspired by the science fiction novels Russell and his friends enjoyed, these computers hackers decided to create a dueling game between two spaceships.
753	Sanders licensed the Brown Box to Magnavox, which released the device as the Magnavox Odyssey in 1972.With fewer than 200,000 units sold, Magnavox Odyssey was not considered a commercial success.
754	Atari sold 150,000 units in 1975 alone (compared to the 200,000 Odysseys that took Magnavox three years to sell.)
755	Even Magnavox began to market a series of modified Odyssey units that played only their tennis and hockey games.
756	Without FCC approval, Coleco would be stuck with warehouses full of units that they could not sell.The company turned to Sanders and Ralph Baer in hopes that Baers experience would be able to help them.
757	Telstar sold over one million units in 1976, before being overshadowed by the next generation of video game consoles.Produced between 1976 and 1983, these second-generation consoles, such as the Atari VCS (also known as the Atari 2600), Mattels Intellivision, and ColecoVision, featured interchangeable game cartridges that were retailed separately, rather than games that came preloaded in the unit.
758	PlayStation sold 100,000 units on the first day and two million units within six months, although the Saturn outsold the PlayStation in the first few weeks due to the success of Virtua Fighter.
759	By the end of 1994, 300,000 PlayStation units were sold in Japan compared to 500,000 Saturn units.
760	It sold more units within two days than the Saturn had in five months, with almost all of the initial shipment of 100,000 units sold in advance and shops across the country running out of consoles and accessories.
761	He believed that Spacewar would make a successful coin-operated machine.In 1971, Nutting Associates, a coin-op device manufacturer, released Bushnells idea as Computer Space.
762	Rather than face a lengthy and undoubtedly unsuccessful court case, Atari settled with Magnavox.The home version of Pong was just as successful as the arcade version.
763	After seeing a demonstration of Magnavox Odysseys table tennis game in May 1972, Bushnell set about trying to create an arcade version of the same game.
764	(It was even confirmed later that Bushnell had played Odysseys tennis game.)
765	A few days later, the tavern owner called Atari to send someone out to fix the machine.
766	Of these first-generation video game consoles, the most successful was Coleco Telstar, due in part to some luck and the help of Ralph Baer.Coleco, a toy company that later became known for the wildly popular Cabbage Patch Doll in the early 1980s, was just beginning to branch out into video games.
767	Acting on a recommendation from Ralph Baer, Coleco was the first company to place a major order for General Instruments AY-3-8500 chip, on which most Pong console clones were based.
768	The process could potentially take months, putting the company well behind its competitors.
769	Video games remained popular arcade features, but it seemed that the era of home video game systems had ended.But in 1985, a small Japanese company proved just the opposite.
770	2024 Gamer Network Limited, Gateway House, 28 The Quadrant, Richmond, Surrey, TW9 1DN, United Kingdom, registered under company number 03882481.All rights reserved.
771	BY MATT LEONE ON JAN 09, 2017 by Matt Leone on Jan 09, 2017 We are saving your place in the story as you read.Today, it sits above a Doutor coffee shop a few doors from a train station in a busy part of Hiyoshi, Yokohama.Visit the building and you wont see a plaque commemorating the history or remnants of a company whose characters now model Louis Vuitton clothes and sell millions of games.
772	It was a room where people came and went.Some describe the company in its early days as a family business.
773	We werent worried about our salaries or living situations or thinking, Where is this company going?
774	Coleco had a week to fix the problem or the unit would need to be totally redesigned before it could be resubmitted for FCC approval.
775	This particular unit is the only one known publicly to still exist.
776	The solution is to sit the console on a surface which dissipates heat efficiently in a well vented area or raise the unit up slightly from its resting surface.
777	Sony decided not to change the console design, since only a small percentage of PlayStation owners used such televisions, and instead gave consumers the option of sending their PlayStation unit to a Sony service centre to have an official modchip installed, allowing play on older televisions.A total of 7,918 PlayStation games have been released worldwide.
778	Beyond the flooded market, video games consoles now faced growing competition from computers.The bulky, room-sized expensive computer behemoths were a thing of the past.
779	Too little too late, the Studio II failed in the marketplace and was discontinued in 1979.I would like to receive exclusive offers and hear about products from InformIT and its family of brands.
780	I can unsubscribe at any time.Pearson Education, Inc., 221 River Street, Hoboken, New Jersey 07030, (Pearson) presents this site to provide information about products and services that can be purchased through this site.This privacy notice provides an overview of our commitment to privacy and describes how we collect, protect, use and share personal information collected through this site.
781	Please note that other Pearson websites and online products and services have their own separate privacy policies.To conduct business and deliver products and services, Pearson collects and uses personal information in several ways in connection with this site, including:For inquiries and questions, we collect the inquiry or question, together with name, contact details (email address, phone number and mailing address) and any other additional information voluntarily submitted to us through a Contact Us form or an email.
782	We use this information to address the inquiry and respond to the question.For orders and purchases placed through our online store on this site, we collect order details, name, institution name and address (if applicable), email address, phone number, shipping and billing addresses, credit/debit card information, shipping options and any instructions.
783	We use this information to complete transactions, fulfill orders, communicate with individuals placing orders or visiting the online store, and for related purposes.Pearson may offer opportunities to provide feedback or participate in surveys, including surveys evaluating Pearson products, services or sites.
784	Pearson collects information requested in the survey questions and uses the information to evaluate, support, maintain and improve products, services or sites, develop new products and services, conduct educational research and for other purposes specified in the survey.Occasionally, we may sponsor a contest or drawing.
785	Pearson collects name, contact information and other information specified on the entry form for the contest or drawing to conduct the contest or drawing.
786	Pearson may collect additional personal information from the winners of a contest or drawing in order to award the prize and for tax reporting purposes, as required by law.If you have elected to receive email newsletters or promotional mailings and special offers but want to unsubscribe, simply email On rare occasions it is necessary to send out a strictly service related announcement.
787	However, these communications are not promotional in nature.We communicate with users on a regular basis to provide requested services and in regard to issues relating to their account we reply via email or phone in accordance with the users' wishes when a user submits their information through our Contact Us form.Pearson automatically collects log data to help ensure the delivery, availability and security of this site.
788	For instance, if our service is temporarily suspended for maintenance we might send users an email.
789	Generally, users may not opt-out of these communications, though they can deactivate their account information.
790	Instead, the game had 25,000 users within 24 hours.
791	The survey would ask users to give their phone number and create a password, and the user would thus unwittingly sign up to some unwanted subscription service that added mysterious charges to their phone bills.
792	The game's users pay a subscription for the privilege of becoming a sword-wielding knight of the digital realm.
793	Played, like FarmVille, via Facebook, it allows users not to nurture a patch of land, but a series of animals, customising their appearances and keeping them fed and groomed.
794	An iPhone app that mixes the digital world with the outside one, it works along similar lines to the "location-based" social network FourSquare, which allows its users to "check-in" to geographical locations.
795	Gaming capitals are a way for developers to increase replay value provides extended play time, and players get more value from the game.Motivation for collecting gaming capitals:Events timed to real world: Popular games such as Dragon City and Wild Ones require users to wait a certain time period before their "energy bars" replenish.
796	Log data may include technical information about how a user or visitor connected to this site, such as browser type, type of computer/device, operating system, internet service provider and IP address.
797	If a user no longer desires our service and desires to delete his or her account, please contact us at and we will process the deletion of a user's account.Users can always make an informed choice as to whether they should proceed with certain services offered by InformIT.
798	We use this information for support purposes and to monitor the health of the site, identify problems, improve service, detect unauthorized access and fraudulent activity, prevent and respond to security incidents and appropriately scale computing resources.Pearson may use third party web trend analytical services, including Google Analytics, to collect visitor information, such as IP addresses, browser types, referring pages, pages visited and time spent on a particular site.
799	While these analytical services collect and report information on an anonymous basis, they may use cookies to gather web trend information.
800	Users can manage and block the use of cookies through their browser.
801	The information gathered may enable Pearson (but not the third party web trend services) to link information with application and system log data.
802	Marketing preferences may be changed at any time.If a user's personally identifiable information changes (such as your postal address or email address), we provide a way to correct or update that user's personal data provided to us.
803	If you choose to remove yourself from our mailing list(s) simply visit the following page and uncheck any communication you no longer want to receive:Pearson does not rent or sell personal information in exchange for any payment of money.While Pearson does not sell personal information, as defined in Nevada law, Nevada residents may email a request for no sale of their personal information to California residents should read our Supplemental privacy statement for California residents in conjunction with this Privacy Notice.
804	Please be aware that we are not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites.
805	This privacy statement applies solely to information collected by this web site.Please contact us about this Privacy Notice or if you have any requests or questions relating to the privacy of your personal information.We may revise this Privacy Notice through an updated posting.
806	Long read: Who is qualified to make a world?In search of the magic of maps.May end up 8-bit pricey.Fancy owning a slice of video game history?
807	The infamous and ultra-rare PlayStation SNES prototype console dug up in 2015 has finally been put up for auction.You'll need a decent chunk of change to make a bid, however.
808	After a few hours on sale, the console is at $31k (23k), and is likely to go much higher before the sale concludes on 27th February.Nintendo and Sony's brief dalliance during the SNES-era is reasonably well documented - a romance between the two was on the cards with the intent of producing a disc-based console together - before the liason broke down and Sony struck out solo.But while the two were talking, prototype "Sony PlayStation SNES" hardware was being tested - and one such unit made headlines in 2015 after turning up, a little worn but still working.The console was uncovered by father and son Terry and Dan Diebold, part of a box of items which once belonged to a now-bankrupt company named Advanta, which used to employ Olaf Olafsson - the boss of Sony Computer Entertainment back in 1992 when talks with Nintendo were going on.This prototype features both a disc drive and a SNES game cartridge slot, and comes with a unique SNES controller which features Sony branding.Around 200 prototypes were made in general, auctioneer site Heritage Auctions states, although most have been junked.
809	"This prototype has been around the world and back again, admired and appreciated by video game enthusiasts from all over.
810	"We at Heritage can attest the prototype is working," the auction site concluded, "as we've played a couple of rounds of Mortal Kombat on it using a Super Famicom cartridge."
811	The prototype was reportedly abandoned by former Sony Computer Entertainment CEO lafur Jhann lafsson during his time at Advanta.
812	Some groups attempted to develop homebrew software for the console, such as Super Boss Gaiden, because there were no known games to use the CD drive.The prototype came with a version of the standard Super Famicom controller (model number SHVC-005).
813	As the saying goes, it belongs in a museum - but here's hoping whoever picks it up also enjoys playing it.
814	From Assassin's Creed to Zoo Tycoon, we welcome all gamers Eurogamer welcomes videogamers of all types, so sign in and join our community!Musical moomin adventure Snufkin: Melody of Moominvalley out next week Rogue-like poker hit Balatro pulled from sale in some countries due to unexpected ratings change Ori studio's No Rest for the Wicked enters Steam early access in April The Last of Us season two cast adds Danny Ramirez, Tati Gabrielle Games Done Quick's Frost Fatales charity speedrunning event returns this weekend GTA 6 developers blast Rockstar's "reckless" decision to return to office full-time Pokmon, Warcraft join in the Glasgow Willy Wonka Experience memes Venba's mouthwatering DLC arrives free this month The latest video game jobs on GamesIndustry.biz Bad puns and video games since 1999.Eurogamer.net is owned by Gamer Network Limited, a ReedPop company and subsidiary of Reed Exhibitions Limited.
815	Hardware specifications for the 8-bit consoles (1982-1987) are relatively easy to read.
816	With relatively insignificant marketing, and the fact that Nintendo ensured that the console itself was not available on as many shelves as the NES, the Master System was actually doomed from the moment it landed on US shores.
817	The Sega Master System arguably trumped the Nintendo Entertainment System in most technical respects, aside from the base systems' audio capabilities.
818	Size and quality of a game console's library might be given lip service in comments and editorials, but games tend to play second fiddle to popularity and brand over the history of the game industry.Third party developer (third party) support for the Sega Master System (SMS) was comparatively small due to the monopoly Nintendo designed for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES).
819	The resulting effect produced a 3D effect far superior to red and blue card board glasses and is a technical marvel that is supposed to revolutionize television and movies in the new millennium.Arelatively short library includes Blade Eagle 3D, Maze Hunter 3D, Missile Defense 3D, Space Harrier 3D, Poseidon Wars 3D, Zaxxon 3D, and the Euro only release of Outrun 3D sum up the relatively small library of 3Dgames for the Master System.
820	Thirteen Million SMSs were sold worldwide from 1985-1998, and US support for the console was cut off around 1992.In regard to what people were actually playing on each system, according to reviews online, over one hundred of the final US SMS library have been noted as having unique or highly polished gameplay, in such a way that they have received a recommendation from reviewers today.
821	By comparison, roughly three hundred of the NES's final library of over seven hundred and sixty titles have been recommended for similar reasons.
822	Licensing contracts for the NES prevented third parties from making the same game on other consoles for two years.20 This fact was exacerbated by Nintendo's publishing empire in Japan, where most of the world's game developers and publishers survived the "crash"of 1984.
823	Nintendo's affinity for legal recourse locked most third parties into sitting on their Intellectual Property (IP) or rebranding and selling it to other console manufacturers.Nintendo's stringent publishing controls left them with less than ten third parties in 1986.21 While Nintendo was courting third party developers and establishing its dominance at retail in 198722, Sega was adapting its significantly larger arcade catalog to the SMS.23 As a result, the NESlibrary only clearly surpassed its main rival console in quantity of quality titles after the 16-bit generation was in its stride in 1990.24 Sega's Master System is home to a number of exclusive titles, including the first console role playing games in the West.
824	One very plausible reason is Nintendo's monopolistic licensing contracts with third parties.
825	This left the SMS without popular third party titles available on a large enough scale to compete with the NES library.
826	Nintendo and a group of less than ten third party developers helped to propel the NES to monumental success by 1988.
827	Sega and a handful of other third parties supported the Master System with exclusive arcade and home-only game software, adding up to one hundred and fourteen titles.
828	For every space ship shooter, "Mario" platformer or "Zelda" adventure game on the NES, the Master System had an exclusive with at least equal gameplay quality and better graphics.
829	Well documented defects in the NES's quality control and design, which has caused up to 30% of systems shipped to stop playing games and all games to have noticeable glitching during scrolling scenes, were utterly overlooked by consumers.The NESand SMS were Nintendo's and Sega's first entries in the video game console market in the United States.
830	Yet the total US release list only added up to one hundred and fourteen titles, most of which were published, if not originally designed or recoded, by Sega themselves.A controversial difference exists between companies like Sega and companies like Capcom, Nintendo, and Namco during these formative years of the game industry.
831	The Nintendo Entertainment System sold something around fifty million worldwide and saw seven hundred and sixty-one releases in the United States.
832	Sega's focus on games throughout their time as a hardware manufacturer was focused on creating unique experiences and advancing the technology.
833	Conceptually, the question these companies' games present is whether the consumer wanted unique experiences in high quantity and quality, or whether they wanted familiar experiences to be replicated.
834	Each level, divided into multiple screens, employs unique mechanics, and as Madeline, your job is to execute them perfectly.
835	While taking inspiration from Breath of the Wild, it offers stunning environments, dozens of unique weapons with unique moves, dozens of unique bosses and unique paths to take.That feeling of exploring almost everywhere is also present, but with an ever-constant feeling of danger and excitement.
836	Even the weapon durability, which still gets mixed reactions, makes each item matter and encourages adapting on the fly.But more importantly, it all comes together, resulting in a unique journey every time you start anew, cementing Breath of the Wild as the best of all time.Follow us:Publisher:505 Games Games Platforms:PS5, Xbox Series X, PC View More Publisher:Rockstar Games Developer:Rockstar Games Platforms:PS5, Xbox Series X View More Publisher:Sony Developer:Arrowhead Game Studios Platforms:PS5, PC View More It will showcase Trials, The Gauntlet, Leaderboards, balance updates and returning "bloodthirsty powers" for S...The Switch is inarguably in its final stages of its lifecycle.
837	What this means to the history of gaming is that a monumental battle occurred in game development theory immediately upon the arrival of Japan in the USgame industry.
838	Game developers in this era, perhaps unconsciously, asked whether consumers wanted to try something new more frequently than they wanted to play the third, fourth or fifth iteration of essentially the same game.In addition to exclusive unique games, a very notable peripheral was only released for the SMS, Liquid Crystal Display 3D glasses.
839	Notable as this peripheral was, what few consumers actually bought an SMS gravitated toward cheaper packages.Despite these very notable facts, the Sega Master System was a total marketing failure for Sega in Japan and the United States.
840	Were there a sizeable retro-gaming market in the early 2000s, this too would be a notable fact about the Master System.There are popular theories as to why the SMS was not a success in the United States.
841	The majority of the NES's vastly larger library, and its lead in notable game titles, was gained after 1989, when the 16-bit era had already begun and the NESwas the only mass market 8-bit platform.
842	These glasses plugged in to the secondary game card slot on the SMS, and synchronized opaque flashes on either eye with flashing character sprites on the television.
843	So unique were these glasses that Sega even included them as a pack in for the more expensive Master System console package.
844	Sega sold the publishing and marketing rights to Tonka toys because Tonka had more resources to make the system a success.
845	Another, Hironobu Sakaguchi,designed games while working part time.We treated it like a hobby, not a career, says longtime Square composer Nobuo Uematsu.
846	Their result was an RPG called Chrono Trigger.Meanwhile, after six Final Fantasy games on Nintendo hardware, Sakaguchi had begun to step away from working in the trenches on the series.
847	Maybe he meant that he had the idea in his head.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan I think we had about 60 people in total working on Final Fantasy 6.
848	When we started preproduction for FF7 , it was probably a little smaller than that, maybe 20-30 people.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan We were working pretty slowly on it.
849	In 2017,hes working as the producer of Square Enixs Final Fantasy 7 Remake.
850	After finishing his work on that and FF7, he played a similar role in building a pipeline and team for Squares Honolulu studio working on the movie Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within, then left the company once the Honolulu studio closed.
851	This was gestures as understood by storytelling game people, not gestures as understood by Microsoft working on operating system UI or something.
852	Those artists may have forgotten by now, but the first characters we had them work on were Cloud, Barret and Red XIII .Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan I remember working on them and revising their initial designs.
853	We just wanted to do what we liked.
854	After we made this demo, we wanted to show it at the Siggraph conference in Los Angeles, and we couldnt bring over a machine from Japan .
855	But I still remember Michael Jones at SGI came to visit because we used this technology, and he was so impressed that he said SGI really wanted to demonstrate the application in its headquarters in Mountain View, .
856	But thats what we wanted to do.Michael Jones Engineering director, Silicon Graphics (1992-1999) We had a lot of customers who did crazy things.
857	If you wanted to make a 3D action game on a Nintendo 64 cartridge with that limited space, you could do it.
858	But I wanted to create a 3D role-playing game.
859	It was very clear in my head what I wanted to make, but that would have been difficult on Nintendos hardware.
860	Nintendo wanted to stay with cartridges to minimize counterfeiting but publishers wanted the extra capacity available on CDs.
861	Check it out to test your knowledge of the game, its development and its lore.Team members describe it as a perfect storm, when Square still acted like a small company but had the resources of a big one  and was willing to pour its money into one of the game industrys most ambitious projects right as the 3D graphics industry began to take off.I dont think Ive felt that kind of excitement ever since, says programmer Hiroshi Kawai.
862	And you would get nowhere near anything like a Final Fantasy running on it.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA When we made our decision, the president of Square , our lead programmer and I went to a meeting with Yamauchi-san.
863	One of Squares first employees, Shinichiro Kajitani joined the team in 1986 on the same day as Nasir Gebelli, the programmer of the first three Final Fantasy games.
864	He went on to work as a programmer on Final Fantasy 7, then later became a lead programmer on Final Fantasy 9.
865	In the early 2000s, he left Square to join Microsoft and worked as a producer and lead programmer on a variety of games including Lost Odyssey.
866	Someone at the company liked it enough to offer him a job, and in 1995 he started as a programmer on the Super Famicom board game Koi wa Balance.
867	On this day, 30 years ago, during the height of the Cold War, a Russian programmer first released the code for a game he called Tetris.
868	We look at the history of the world's most successful computer game Aleksei Pazhitnov, inventor of Tetris (right) 1984  Alexey Pajitnov creates Tetris while working as a programmer in the USSR, using a Russian computer called the Electronica 60.
869	Below, in their words, youll find a story about a company in transition  and the money, politics and talent that pushed it over the edge.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan Nobuo Uematsu Music composer, Square Japan Yoshitaka Amano Image illustrator, freelance Kazushige Nojima Scenario writer, Square Japan Yusuke Naora Art director, Square Japan Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA Without Hironobu Sakaguchi, Square might not exist today.In the mid-80s, shortly after Square started out, the company was still finding its footing in the game industry.
870	No, not to his face.Junichi Yanagihara Executive vice president, Square USA Well, he was the king, in a good way.
871	Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.Yeah, king, yeah.
872	He was controlling the entire operation.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA King?
873	| Photographer: Irwin Wong Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I think the way he works is very aggressive sometimes.
874	Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA I guess my style can be a little haphazard.
875	And so it was kind of easy for me and probably everyone else on our team to just kind of believe in his creation and be able to stand by it and really commit ourselves.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I think the golden days of Sakaguchi were when he was developing Final Fantasy 7.
876	After we finished Final Fantasy 6,we began working on Final Fantasy 7 , brainstorming and holding initial planning meetings.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA 1994?
877	He moved up the ranks as the top creative figure at Square (intermittently known as Squaresoft), becoming an executive vice president and a game industry celebrity.
878	Following his time at Square, he joined Electronic Arts to help it get a handle on early PlayStation 3 hardware, then became president of a Hawaii-based startup called Avatar Reality.
879	Despite Sony having an unproven track record in the game industry, its developer outreach and hardware convinced many third-party teams to hop on board.Square was one of the biggest studios to jump ship, announcing in early 1996 that it had decided to shift its entire lineup to Sonys hardware, with Final Fantasy 7 as the centerpiece.By the end of the generation, almost all major third-party studios had signed up with Sony, in part due to the economic advantages of manufacturing games on PlayStations CDs compared to Nintendo 64s cartridges.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I was hired by the president of the company, Mizuno-san, and he told me that, Squaresoft will always be with Nintendo.
880	That must have been a really tough time for him.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan I think it was a very difficult time for our president and for Sakaguchi-san.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA Of course, back then I wasnt the president of Square.
881	As president and and chief executive officer at Square, he led negotiations with Sony for Square to publish Final Fantasy 7 on PlayStation.
882	Following his time at Square, he has worked as president of development studio AQ Interactive and served on the boards of various companies in and related to the game industry.
883	Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA We made our pitch as a team to the president and founder of Square, Miyamoto-san, because ultimately it was going to come down to whether it made business sense.
884	At least for the Japanese market, that really made the PlayStation the most popular console for the generation.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA Politically it was a drastic change and a huge decision, but for me it was more of a natural decision because that was the hardware we needed to make the game.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.I thought it was the right decision, but yeah, there was a lot of with Nintendo after.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square It was pretty uncomfortable.
885	He was always looking at a big vision, but at the same time, how to make it a reality.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square He was always looking at the future and always had a big-picture vision.
886	I did.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan But at that time Chrono Triggers development was in dire straits, so all the team members switched over to help with Chrono Trigger  and thats as far as it went.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA Ah, yes, thats right.
887	Team members say they always thought of the demo as a research project rather than as something theyd sell to players one day.Behind the scenes, the process of making a 3D tech demo started with Kazuyuki Hashimoto, an engineer who had experience in early 3D game development working with companies like Sega, Nintendo and Sony.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA Prior to Final Fantasy 7  we didnt have anyone on staff to do 3D graphics.
888	He has the talent or ability to see what will happen in the future.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA We knew Nintendo 64 and PlayStation were going to be the next hardware generation, and that wed be developing our next game for one of them.
889	Initially, we could do something with the most powerful environment so we could be more free  free to figure out what we could do in 3D.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA Back then, it was a big step from 2D to 3D.
890	I remember most people wanting a second or third go to figure out the right pattern of commands to win the game.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA There wasnt that big of a crowd.
891	Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA At the time when you were talking about computer graphics, people wanted to see something very realistic, something that you could throw into a live action movie and they couldnt tell the difference.
892	So our main reason for choosing the PlayStation was really just because it was the only console which would allow us to use CD-ROM media.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Also CDs were cheaper than cartridges, so we were thinking we could provide more to players without raising the price.
893	He was never satisfied with what he was currently working on.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan I think calling him a god would be going too far, but it kind of felt like that.
894	He told the management committee when a game was going to be completed and what kind of marketing he wanted to have.
895	Something would just kind of hit him and hed be like,OK, weve got to do this.
896	That kind of thing happens from time to time.
897	And in particular, machines like that, even if theyre kind of over the top as far as what a gamer would use, theyre great for game designers and developers because they can simulate interactively what would later on take maybe a year to code up to be interactive on a PC or something.
898	And here I am coding, kind of being able to do lead dev work for this Space World demo.
899	So all my work at that point kind of went down the drain.In the Super Famicom era, Nintendo had a chokehold on many of the big Japanese third-party game studios.
900	So I was kind of shocked.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan I remember walking down the hall when Sakaguchi-san stopped me and said, Hey, look at this!
901	He was a superstar.Kyoko Higo Assistant marketing associate, Square U.S.I remember us calling him The King.
902	Send an email, change my mind, send another email, think about it some more.Kyoko Higo Assistant marketing associate, Square U.S.Hes the father of Final Fantasy.
903	And they did a lot of public relations work and marketing on their dime.
904	But from a business perspective, our main interest was making sure that Sony won and Nintendo lost, basically, because that would be better for us.George Harrison Senior vice president, marketing and communications, Nintendo of America (1992-2007) The period when PlayStation first arrived using CDs rather than cartridges was a tough period for Nintendo with publishers.
905	And it spent money to open a new Western sales and marketing office in the U.S. to help promote the game in territories where the series hadnt yet taken off.From front to back, Square spared little expense in its attempts to make and promote the game.Over the years, Squares headquarters has bounced between a number of different offices.
906	At the time, Japanese-developed role-playing games had a cult following in the West, and the Final Fantasy series had struggled to expand beyond that small-but-loyal audience.So as Final Fantasy 7s Western release approached, Square closed its existing sales and marketing office in Washington and hired two game industry newcomers to start a new office in Costa Mesa, Calif., giving the company and the series a fresh start in the West.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.At the time, more than 95 percent of the revenue for Squaresoft came from the Japanese market.
907	Then he said he was looking for someone to run marketing for the U.S. market.
908	We controlled marketing but asked Sony to do the budget and publishing and those kinds of things.In the early 90s, Yoshihiro Maruyama worked for Japanese management guru Ken Ohmae, who had a variety of contacts in the game industry.
909	But he knows how to get people to do things for him.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan I wouldnt say he made arbitrary decisions, but he tended to make pretty big decisions pretty quickly and easily.
910	Team members describe Kitase as calmer and quieter than many high-profile game developers and say that his cinematic sensibilities played a big role in shaping FF7s CG cutscenes.
911	You know, if a computer company had made a pinball machine, they would have had a button that says push or launch or click or something, but if you had a game designer, it would have a big spring and a thing you pull back on.When Square released screenshots from Final Fantasy 6: The Interactive CG Game in 1995, some magazines jumped the gun and reported them as the first look at a game for Nintendo 64 (under its early name "Ultra 64").
912	It was a big risk to put Final Fantasy 7 on the PlayStation.
913	That was another big part of the appeal.In 1990, while working at Shikoku Bank, Tomoyuki Takechi started working with Square to help manage its finances.
914	But we knew it was a big deal to have lost it on our system, and knowing that it would make Sony a bigger competitor, it just made the work that much more important.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan Ill say this.
915	In 96, it was a big machine.Do you know how much memory was available on the PlayStation 1?
916	So while Square put a lot of money into technology and manpower, motivation was definitely also a big factor.
917	the first plot treatment that Sakaguchi-san wrote, it took place in New York, there was an organization there that was trying to destroy the Mako Reactors and a character named Detective Joe was investigating them.
918	One of the members of this organization trying to destroy the reactor was the prototype character for Cloud.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan I think I remember that you wrote some concept/planning documents too, right?Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan I did.
919	The animation data was just so huge, and we needed to think about how to shrink it.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan We had to be efficient in figuring out what character 3D animation data you wanted in a particular level, so that you wouldnt be spending too much time loading stuff.
920	But it was character designer Tetsuya Nomura who became a breakout star amongst fans thanks to his characters like Cloud, whose spiky hair translated well to the screen in the games 3D engine.
921	And in that respect, I feel like I havent changed much.One of Squares longest-running character designers, Tetsuya Nomura started with the Final Fantasy series as a tester on FF4 and has been contributing to the series in various forms ever since.
922	| Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Squares Tetsuya Nomura contributed to many aspects of Final Fantasy 7s development, but fans know him best as the games character designer.
923	He was responsible for the games cast, including main character Cloud (left) and villain Sephiroth (right).| Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Starting with the original Final Fantasy games in the 80s, one of the franchises most distinctive elements has been its promotional and concept artwork from freelance illustrator Yoshitaka Amano, whose pieces for games and otherwise have made him a celebrity in art circles.Often appearing on box art and in marketing materials for Final Fantasy games, Amanos work takes the characters from each game and presents them with a fantastical style players dont typically see in the game industry.I feel like what I add to the franchise is my approach differs from a game developers approach, he says.
924	While for early Final Fantasy games, Amano based his work on pixel art designs and thus had to visualize what those characters should look like in his paintings, on Final Fantasy 7 he painted a series of pieces inspired by concept art from Square character designer Tetsuya Nomura.
925	| Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Setting aside work on the Super Famicom version of Final Fantasy 7, Square began to explore options for where to take the series in 3D.
926	And so thats what Square had done, pretty much.With Chrono Trigger behind it and work on the Final Fantasy Siggraph tech demo underway, Square began to take steps toward a second attempt at making Final Fantasy 7, following the abandoned Super Famicom project.
927	I was using a 3D model of a Leviathan guardian that definitely wasnt part of the FF6 Siggraph demo.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan We started making a demo to see what was possible, and only a handful of people worked on it: a few programmers, and four or five artists to work on the graphics.
928	As for the main bulk of the work on that demo, maybe it took a month or two?Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Its hard to say what the exact time frame was.
929	That was part of the problem with choosing Nintendo.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan All this work was toward  I think they called it the Shoshinkai, Nintendos Space World .
930	As long as you work for us, its basically the same as working for Nintendo.
931	We just want you to see what were doing, and if you like it, then by all means, come work with us on this.
932	Its not that we were passing information back and forth between Nintendo and Sony, but at the time our programmers  started making prototypes that ran on the PlayStation and Nintendo 64 as sort of benchmark software to test each system.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan We were trying to work out whether to do it with the Nintendo machine or not.
933	It was their first time working on a game, and it was our first time working with 3D graphics.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA At that time, I also had invites from other companies.
934	Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA Square planned to build a game for the next-gen Nintendo machine, but the kit wasnt available and the technical .
935	And it was difficult even in my head to picture what the battle scenes should look like.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA Square was very new to the 3D graphics industry, so Silicon Graphics didnt pay much attention to us.
936	Those reports turned out to be incorrect.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA People at the show didnt understand what they were looking at.
937	spent a lot of money on infrastructure.And I know Hashimoto-san probably had a large purse to work with, just to try to get the best 3D artists.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA At that time, every workstation cost $70,000 U.S. At first, when we were working on the Siggraph demo, we ordered four machines.
938	I think a lot of programmers at the time were probably in the same position.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA Most of the difficulty was the in-game stuff and the tiny memory space.
939	Fortunately, they eventually relented and, in turn, cleaned up our internal API so that it could be made available to all PlayStation developers.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA I remember seeing the lead programmer, Narita-san, struggling to make the characters walk on a 3D surface.
940	The movie hit theaters in 2001.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA Toward the end of Final Fantasy 7, Sakaguchi-san came to visit my desk and said, Oh, we have a lot of movie clips in Final Fantasy 7.
941	Square team members say they wanted to include lengthy cutscenes and large amounts of content in the game, which would have been difficult in the limited space of a Nintendo 64 cartridge, but that the plan never got far enough into development to have anything substantial to show publicly.Shortly after speaking on stage at Sonys PlayStation Experience event in 2015, Final Fantasy 7 director Yoshinori Kitase and artist/writer Tetsuya Nomura joked around in Polygons San Francisco office.
942	In an interview for this story, director Yoshinori Kitase estimates that Final Fantasy 6s development team had 60 people on it.
943	| Photographer: Irwin Wong While Square sorted its tech under the hood, it also needed to decide what art style Final Fantasy 7, as the companys first big 3D project, should have.The games overall appearance fell to art director Yusuke Naora.
944	In 2014, after years working as the director of Final Fantasy 15, Nomura stepped out of that role without Square giving a clear public reason why.
945	Along with a handful of other ex-Square employees  such as Maruyama, who took over as managing director of Microsoft Japan in 2003  some say it felt like a small reunion at Microsoft.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan Its not that we were trying to rebuild the team from Square at Microsoft on purpose or build the new Square or anything like that, but I and Sugaro-san and a guy named Fukugawa and another guy name Yasui who worked on Final Fantasy 9, we all joined around the same time.
946	So he contacted me one day and he told me that he was looking for a managing director of the Xbox operation in Japan.
947	And that conflicts very, very much with the way that Japanese games tended to get developed, where youd have this sort of authoritarian, almost dictator-like director at the very top who not only handled creative decisions but also handled HR decisions and had full authority there.
948	Some fans cried with happiness.As part of the remake announcement, Square Enix revealed that Tetsuya Nomura will serve as the games director, Yoshinori Kitase the producer and Kazushige Nojima the scenario writer, reuniting three of the original games creative leads.At Sonys PlayStation Experience event in 2015, Final Fantasy 7 Remake producer Yoshinori Kitase and director Tetsuya Nomura revealed the first public footage from the game.
949	Rather than doing due diligence and so forth.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Sony basically gave us the best deal they were giving to any publisher.
950	After leaving Square in 2002, he joined game publisher Capcom, then went to development studio Game Republic, which he eventually helped run as chief operating officer.
951	Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square We used about $40 million for the games development.
952	| Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Final Fantasy 6 didnt sell very well outside of Japan, and so when we were bringing Final Fantasy 7 overseas, I was thinking I needed to change something  we needed to do something different.
953	Sony aggressively pitched to Square to bring Final Fantasy over, and at that time Sakaguchi-san and everybody thought we should.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square They were really eager to publish it under their brand.
954	So the first six titles that came out with the Squaresoft label, or logo, they were all published by SCEA and also SCEE.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Sony also agreed to co-promote and market the game around the world.
955	That was a huge amount at the time.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Just in the North American market, we probably spent more than $20 million on marketing.
956	A million was sort of the magic number.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square When Final Fantasy was on Nintendo platforms, the series wasnt very popular outside of Japan.
957	But if I hadnt stopped you, in the second half of the game, you were planning to kill everyone off but the final three characters the player chooses!Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan No way!
958	You wanted to kill everyone except the final three characters the player chose for the endgame.Kazushige Nojima Scenario writer, Square Japan Obviously, Im a scenario writer so I wrote the script where Aerith dies.
959	Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: David Bamberger Prior to Final Fantasy 7's U.S. release, Sony and Square went back and forth on the game's cover art design, with Square U.S. vice president of marketing Jun Iwasaki often taking trips to Tokyo to get final approvals from producer Hironobu Sakaguchi.
960	The final ideas they developed all played up the game's story in a direct way, and poked fun at dramatic movie trailers.
961	Yanagihara stayed with the Honolulu studio until its final day in 2002, tying up the remaining legal issues, then branched out with a team of former co-workers to start independent CG animation studio Sprite Animation, which has credits including TV show Pac-Man and the Ghostly Adventures.
962	And he really pushes right up to that final deadline  or past it.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Thats only when we havent gotten approval from the higher-ups yet.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Oh?
963	Gathering gold, killing enemies, taking objectives as a coordinated team, then making a final push to victory is an incredible high that you'll want to experience again and again.
964	The final challenge had me questioning my sanity.
965	Around this time of year, we all like firing up our favorite slasher flick or scary game in the spirit of the season, but it's also a good time to give pause to think about one of gaming's most unique genres.
966	"I wanted to create a really scary game," Mikami said in a 1996 interview with EGM's Ed Semrad, "no ghosts or crap like that, but real monsters you could see that would come and attack."
967	There was a need to modernize the way these games played while preserving the design philosophy that made them scary in the first place.One of the first and most important games of the revisionist survival horror movement arrived before the genre was in crisis.
968	Like many games before it, the story of lives ruined or ended unfolded through the logs and journals of those left behind.The team at Irrational Games wasn't looking at Resident Evil or Alone in the Dark for guidelines, but when faced with the challenge of making a truly scary game, they came to the same conclusion.
969	What makes Rapture's inhabitants so scary is not how monstrous they are, but rather how human.
970	Trying to perform small, precise tasks under pressure is scary and intense, but rather than forcing players to fumble through their inventory, it forced them to carefully shoot off the limbs of their foes.
971	Survival horror is one of the only genres defined not by gameplay mechanics, but by theme, atmosphere, subject matter, and design philosophy.
972	Survival horror games were some of the first to approach game design in terms of emotion, and as such, they're some of the most important titles in bridging the gap between art and games.The Dark Age The first games to attempt to creep out players were mostly adventure games.
973	Only the eyes of the on-screen character were visible , and he could only pierce through the darkness with a lit match, which would be snuffed out by a breeze as a monster entered the room.True to the philosophy of later survival horror games, your avatar was weak and forced to run from monsters.
974	It should have been the start of a promising run for Andreasen, but alas, he was one of the casualties of the videogame crash that followed shortly thereafter, and his promising career was cut short.During the dark age of the Atari 2600, the market was notoriously flooded with games based on popular TV shows and films of the day, including some of the first attempts to interpret the classic horror movie formula of the '70s and '80 as videogames.
975	The game's programmer, Tim Martin, may not have had his moment of glory for his contribution to the horror genre, but he was soon vindicated when he released the seminal Spelunker, one of the first scrolling platform games, in 1983.As the next generation picked up steam, games developed a larger toolset to convey frightening sights and sounds.
976	That Chiller never inspired much controversy can be largely owed to the fact that it wasn't popular (or presentable) enough to ever catch on in arcades.Other games attempting to pair horror themes with classic gameplay followed.
977	Although outwardly a side-scrolling platformer, the haunted house stages were full of traps and secrets, and the enemies were fast, powerful and intimidating, forcing players to learn the intricacies of the house and rely on their wits.Toward the end of the decade, Capcom released Sweet Home to tie in with the Japanese horror film of the same name.
978	Although this was, like other games mentioned here, a genre game (in this case an RPG) with horror themes applied, it made a real effort to pay more than lip service to its cinematic brethren.
979	The Atari 2600 made for a crude canvas, unable to lend much in the way of sights and sounds.
980	A new team carried on their work, preserving the same core gameplay, but losing the ethic that made the original so frightening.
981	It was a hit in America and Europe, and it made its way to Japan thanks to ports on FM TOWNS computers and 3DO.
982	When asked about his inspirations, he is quick to volunteer Sweet Home  a game conveniently made by his employer.
983	During a time when the outcome of the console war was still very uncertain, Resident Evil tipped the scales in Sony's favor, and sealed its fate as the market leader.One of the more subtle and important contributions Capcom made was the term "survival horror" itself.
984	Mikami wanted to tap into that classic notion of horror of "the ordinary made strange," so rather than setting his game in the kind of creepy mansion no one would ever visit, he wanted to use familiar urban settings, transformed by the chaos of the T-Virus outbreak.
985	Frustrated with the mundane environments and story problems that were plaguing the project, he made the hard decision to delay the game and remake it nearly from scratch.Had the resultant game bombed, a decision like that would have ruined Mikami's career as a producer.
986	Where zombies made for slow, lumbering, clumsy enemies, Velociraptors were fast, cunning killing machines.
987	What do you think about resident evil?<mct>While it may not have been true survival horror, it was an important step in the right direction, and a major influence on Shinji Mikami when he created Resident Evil.The Dawn of Survival Horror All of these early games we've mentioned attempted to bring horror to gaming, and some of them even came close to tapping into themes of isolation and vulnerability that define the genre, but none of them had achieved the kind of fully formed vision of survival horror as we know it today.
988	It wasn't until 1986 that Jeff Tunnell began the journey that would make him the unwitting father of the modern survival horror game  an achievement that has gone widely overlooked in the years since.
989	As the co-founder of Dynamix, Tunnell is better known for classics like The Incredible Machine and The Adventures of Willy Beamish, but it was Project Firestart on the Commodore 64 that would prove to be one of his most difficult and most significant accomplishments.If art is a work that communicates human emotion, then survival horror is perhaps the first movement to effectively bridge the gap between art and games in a uniquely interactive way.
990	He soon learns that the attempts to genetically engineer a docile creature to work in space have gone horribly wrong, and the powerful monsters grow more numerous and more deadly.The principles were completely in line with later survival horror titles like Alone in the Dark and Resident Evil.
991	Project Firestart may have pioneered the survival horror formula, but it did not inspire imitators, and it wasn't until years later that the lone game would become part of a genre, and others would make the same discoveries that Dynamix did.
992	This scheme would later find its way into many survival horror games, as well as a few of Raynal's later works.Music was equally important.
993	It was there that it inspired the next generation of survival horror.
994	It's a good thing, too, since survival horror was about to become bigger than anyone could have imagined.Survival Horror Explosion With the breakthrough success of Resident Evil, the floodgates were opened, and the genre's conventions solidified.
995	"It's funny, you think you start top-down with the story and then you try to make it into a game," Tunnell purports, "but the more you have to think about what kind of gameplay experience you want, the more you have to try to make a story around that."
996	The story centered around a man on a mission to investigate a space station that has gone quiet, find any survivors, and figure out what happened.
997	Coupled with grisly images of their remains, these logs helped to slowly expose the back story through more passive means  a device later employed in almost the exact same manner by Alone in the Dark, Resident Evil, and even newer games like Doom 3.It was a long, difficult project for the small company.
998	That was a goal of having texts to read, that could tell a story you can't display."
999	This device allowed the game to slowly reveal a story without compromising the oppressive isolation needed for the game's story.
1000	George Romero's Living Dead movies were a major source of inspiration, but it was the haunted house aspect of Amityville Horror that showed itself prominently in his creation.Alone in the Dark's spooky story is deeply rooted in the works of H. P. Lovecraft.
1001	It tells the story of the Derceto mansion, an old plantation house in Louisiana whose owner, Jeremy Hartwood, has recently killed himself under suspicious circumstances.
1002	The story can be played from one of two perspectives: paranormal investigator Edward Carnby, or Emily Hartwood, niece of the deceased.
1003	"We just took some of the ideas that were in Aliens," Jeff admits.
1004	The game itself, however, strayed from the survival horror genre, leaning more towards action-adventure.These ideas reared their heads soon after in the long overdue revival of one of the genre's greats.
1005	It lifted gameplay ideas from Resident Evil with little guilt, considering how much Resident Evil had purloined from the series, and moved the focus away from Lovecraftian influences, while still focusing on otherworldly demons.
1006	Culling elements of Resident Evil, Alone in the Dark, and some new ideas about psychological horror, Eternal Darkness scared people in traditional and novel ways .Its most memorable contribution was the "sanity meter."
1007	In addition to the detailed 3D environments and impressive flashlight effects, Raynal brought with him some fresh ideas about how to disturb the player in ways only a game can.The bond a gamer shares with his on-screen avatar is different than a viewer watching a character in a movie.
1008	The ideas about morality as a device for horror games weren't lost entirely, though.
1009	It remains to be seen if any of these ideas will stick, but Capcom has a sequel on the way.If System Shock 2 kicked off the revisionist survival horror movement, then its spiritual successor Bioshock elevated it to an art form.
1010	It was an innovative, ambitious game with some very original ideas about horror, but some of these ideas worked and some of them simply didn't.
1011	The music, triggered whenever an enemy drew near, soon became enough to inspire panic even before the monster appeared on screen.This wasn't a shooter like other Aliens-inspired games of the time.
1012	"I don't even like horror," he admits with a laugh.
1013	Although Raynal never played Project Firestart  in fact, he had never even owned a Commodore 64  the conclusions he arrived at were similar.
1014	Alone in the Dark was a polished, mature vision of the horror genre, a technical marvel, and remains an enduring classic, still able to frighten, even with its ancient graphics.
1015	Squaresoft went from a niche publisher to one of the hottest names in the industry, and they set out to develop a game that would capitalize on the success of both Final Fantasy and Resident Evil.Had it been released today, Parasite Eve might not even be considered a survival horror game.
1016	Early on, the games that followed formed a cohesive genre, with similar ideas about gameplay, design, and control, and some of these even leaked into games outside of the horror realm, like Time Gate: Knight's Chase and Time Commando.
1017	Although other survival horrors on the Dreamcast like Carrier, D2, and Illbleed were not so lucky, the future still seemed bright.When the PlayStation 2 arrived, Capcom was eager to see if the new technology could help even a game rooted in pre-rendered backgrounds.
1018	These ranged from flashes of disturbing imagery to M. C. Escher-like perspective tricks, and even tampering with the game's volume and picture to make players feel like they were genuinely losing it.
1019	In Europe, where the computer game market was much larger, the game was met warmly by critics, with Zzap!64 giving it a 91, and The Games Machine awarding it an 87, but mainstream success was still out of reach.Jeff Tunnell and Dynamix never revisited the genre they created.
1020	"Honestly, this game was so hard that once we moved on and finished it I hardly paid any attention to that genre afterward."
1021	Alone in the Dark is forever remembered as the game that brought the genre to a mass audience and inspired countless imitators, and Project Firestart is one of many similar stories of games that were simply too far ahead of their time.Breakthrough Success Survival horror's biggest breakthrough indirectly grew from another game that pioneered a genre before the world was ready.
1022	For this reason, Sweet Home is often considered a progenitor of the genre  and indeed it was a relevant game  but the Alone in the Dark influence was far more obvious.
1023	In Japan, it's actually a very common practice to coin a new genre for a game as a marketing term; over there, Phoenix Wright is billed as a "Courtroom Battle" game, and Tales of Symphonia marketed as a "To Resonate With You RPG."
1024	But the budding genre that Resident Evil belonged to sorely needed a name, and the term stuck.
1025	Lasting genre labels have almost always been coined by fans or media, but Capcom's marketing answered the question before anyone asked.
1026	What followed was a tidal wave of survival horror games from Japan lasting from 1997 through the end of the generation.One of the first games to take advantage of the heightened interest in this new genre was not actually an attempt to follow Resident Evil at all.
1027	Not long after, a young programmer named Frederick Raynal found himself tasked with bringing the uniquely abstract game to MS-DOS.
1028	The occasional false alarm kept players fearing what lurked around the corner.Alone in the Dark was released in Europe in late 1992 and around the world not long after.
1029	Its timing was perfect and it picked up a sizable share of both audiences, and inspired a hit sequel not long after.The golden age of survival horror came to a crescendo in 1999, when Konami released their long overdue foray into the genre, Silent Hill.
1030	Dino Crisis 3 followed not long after with poor reviews and even weaker sales.
1031	Bioshock would later make these kinds of decisions a prominent theme.During the years that followed, the line between action and survival horror gradually blurred, as horror games abandoned the slow movement and stiff controls long associated with the genre.
1032	The further he gets, the more the unsettling locations reflect Ethan's mental state.As an Xbox 360 launch title, Condemned set the pace for survival horror in the new gen, but it wasn't long before others followed suit.
1033	Alpha Waves' approach to 3D game design intrigued Raynal, and he wondered about all of the unexplored possibilities of the third dimension.
1034	This is best attributed to the thoughtful approach to game design that Raynal and Tunnell both share.The title of his creation, Alone in the Dark, reveals much about his approach to horror.
1035	It was a wake up call to the industry to start approaching game design from new angles.Infogrames had their biggest hit yet, but they didn't have much appreciation for the craftsmanship that went into it.
1036	"I didn't write any design documents, as I was the main programmer, the creator, and the integrator," Raynal explains.
1037	These sorts of situations could indeed be very intense, but others found them awkward and frustrating.Early in this article, we pointed out that good survival horror design could often be considered bad game design in any other context.
1038	Zero gravity areas made for an eerie and unnatural setting that complimented the tone so well, you have to wonder why we hadn't seen it more.EA's team proved that brilliant survival horror design and intuitive, effective controls were not mutually exclusive.
1039	He wanted to blend animated 3D characters with bitmapped backgrounds with all the detail of the graphical adventures of the day.
1040	Even before Resident Evil's release, the comparisons were frequent.Despite borrowing its controls, gameplay foundations, and the signature blend of pre-rendered backgrounds and 3D characters, Mikami didn't seem to have a great deal of reverence for Alone in the Dark.
1041	The combination of lush, pre-rendered backgrounds and detailed 3D characters emphasized both the graphical power of Sony's new system and the mass storage of CD-ROM media.
1042	At the time, most games in the genre still used pre-rendered backgrounds like Resident Evil.
1043	The project attracted his coworkers who chipped in artwork.
1044	In 1994 he started work on a project called Resident Evil (Biohazard in Japan), designing, directing, and scripting the game himself.A proud Japanese developer, Mikami is quiet about the extent to which he was influenced by a French computer game.
1045	In the wake of SEGA's troubles with the Dreamcast, they shut down No Clich and terminated the project deep into its development.
1046	Technology was barely at the point where animated human characters could be done in 3D, let alone zombies that were frightening to look at, so the team had to use gameplay to get their message across.
1047	Large amounts of dialog were simply not an option if the player was to feel like he was alone in the dark.Gameplay was just as important.
1048	"Almost 20 years ago, graphics couldn't make monsters scary, so I used several methods," Raynal says.
1049	His monsters were gruesome and gory and the story rooted in the revisionist sci-fi subgenre of zombie fiction.
1050	Movies like Alien, Jaws, and Night of the Living Dead were sources of inspiration  flesh and blood monsters that seemed unstoppable.Mikami understood what made the Alone in the Dark formula work far better than the teams at Infogrames working on its sequels.
1051	Borrowing some of its tone from the burgeoning J-Horror genre, it abandoned zombies and monsters for eerie visions of ghosts.
1052	It was followed shortly by the more experimental Condemned: Criminal Origins, a "first-person bludgeoner" that proved to be one of the most terrifying games ever made.Condemned didn't need zombies, or even monsters in any conventional sense.
1053	Its monsters could only be killed with fire, and creating flaming bullets meant constantly dousing your ammunition with lighter fluid or alcohol every time you reloaded.
1054	This "strategic dismemberment" mechanic made the monsters feel more powerful and threatening and the player feel more helpless without drawing them away from the action.Dead Space was a progressive take on survival horror that succeeded in a way few others had.
1055	Raynal explains, "By setting some unavoidable death trap like the floor that felt down in the first corridor, you instill a fear with what the player is doing the most: walking."
1056	Alone in the Dark 2's story of zombie mobsters and ghost pirates was more campy than scary, and the greater focus on shooting not only diminished the sense of fear in the combat, but it proved to be a very poor match for the controls.
1057	The story avoided some of the genre's usual clichs, and the fear of losing a child made a perfect motivator for an ordinary man to overcome the extraordinary.It was also a step forward in terms of presentation.
1058	Where not being able to see would be considered a game-wrecking flaw otherwise, the fear of the unknown is a powerful tool of terror.Silent Hill was a critical darling as soon as it was released, overcoming the obvious comparisons to Resident Evil as few others had been able to do.
1059	Shortly after entering the mansion it becomes clear that there is an evil presence, and as the story unfolds, the long, sordid history of the home reveals itself a little at a time.
1060	There was one central narrative that told a very personal story, and the good and evil threads would progress according to the player's decisions.
1061	An immediate hit with critics and fans, it became a major commercial breakthrough for Infogrames, still a fairly small company at the time.
1062	In a time when many developers were still coming to grips with how to use these new tools, it was something that simply couldn't have been done on the last generation of consoles.Resident Evil was a breakthrough hit.
1063	The claustrophobic interiors the series was known for were traded for a number of larger, more open areas, and the enemy count was ramped up to match.There's no denying that Resident Evil 4 was a major breakthrough for third-person shooters.
1064	The gameplay was a peculiar blend of RPG and survival horror, with random encounters, but a dark tone and realistic environments made scary by their monstrous inhabitants.
1065	Launched with almost no fanfare as part of The Orange Box  a five-game package which marked Half-Life 2's arrival on consoles, bundling Valve's FPS with its subsequent Episode One and Two add-ons, Team Fortress 2, and Portal itself  Portal became an overnight success, wowing with its intelligent, brain-teasing puzzles, and lightning-quick, but exceedingly dark humour.
1066	A Soulslike (also spelled Souls-like) is a subgenre of action role-playing games known for high levels of difficulty and emphasis on environmental storytelling, typically in a dark fantasy setting.
1067	This mechanic provides a means to avoid an outright failure state, where the player must restart the game completely and lose all progress, while still providing a risk-and-reward system to make the game challenging to the player.Soulslike games are commonly defined by their dark fantasy setting and lack of overt storytelling, as well as their deep worldbuilding, with a captivating world being cited as key to spark players' desire to explore.
1068	Despite their dark themes, the settings of Soulslikes sometimes feature elements of comic relief, such as unexpected interactions (e.g.
1069	It introduced the core tenets that would be followed by the Dark Souls series, such as the combat, death mechanics, multiplayer, storytelling, and dark fantasy setting.
1070	He soon learns that Silent Hill is not what it seems as it slowly descends into a horrific, otherworldly state.
1071	Once Mario 64 showed that a dynamic, "intelligent" camera could work with analog, screen-relative control in a 3D world, the industry slowly caught wise, and before long, solutions like "tank controls" and scripted cameras were considered pass.This took its toll on the survival horror genre once the new generation of hardware emerged, but in the absence of a compelling new direction, survival horror games stuck to their dated ways.
1072	As the years advanced, horror games slowly decreased in sales, and gamers stopped responding to the same tricks.
1073	Early on, Shinji Mikami's team toyed with the idea of Leon Kennedy becoming infected and slowly losing his humanity, as well as with the idea of following in Silent Hill 2's footsteps and adding nightmarish visions and an otherworldly stalker.
1074	It's a slow, downward spiral that forces the player into a world where survival means acts of savage violence, as Ethan slowly becomes the very things he fights.
1075	When scientists discover Adam, a limited resource that allows them to genetically modify themselves, the society based on greed breaks down, and its inhabitants slowly lose their humanity as they struggle to control this genetic currency.It works not only as a fable about unchecked greed and unbalanced ideals, but as a truly chilling world.
1076	Since Resident Evil 4, action-horror was slowly encroaching on the survival horror niche, and it seemed like the notion of high difficulty and vulnerable characters were just incompatible with where the industry was going.
1077	But by the end of the 32-bit genre, many of these conventions were on their way out.
1078	There's a great argument to be made that these conventions worked for the genre and that strange camera angles and limited control were perfect for creating fear, but this school of design fought a difficult battle that it would eventually lose.Resident Evil pressed on in the new generation with Code Veronica on the SEGA Dreamcast.
1079	Most of the criticism centered on the controls, camera, and other tried and true conventions most associated the series.
1080	clockThis article was published more than34 years ago LOS ANGELES -- Be ready to duck for cover the next time you pass a personal computer.
1081	In fact, many of today's games offer such advanced features -- including 3-D graphics and digital sound -- that titles of just one or two years ago seem dated by comparison.
1082	Many of them helped define the industry during its inception eight years ago and remain strong players today.
1083	Lurking just beneath the austere surface of most any PC could be she-devils, dragons, aerial dogfights, high-tech cops and malevolent leather-clad goddesses waiting to take you captive.
1084	Although Nintendo Entertainment System's rock 'em sock 'em video games may be the current rage, the software games that run on personal computers have hardly been laid to rest.
1085	Increasingly crisp computer-generated graphics, complicated plots and sophisticated themes are helping sales of software adventure games climb as fast as the F19 Stealth Fighter that zips across the screen of one popular title.
1086	"These games are selling like crazy," said Jim Novy, a spokesman for Softsel Computer Products Inc., an Inglewood, Calif., software distributor that tracks the industry.
1087	Personal computer software game sales shot up 29 percent from 1987 to 1988, with sales of $263 million, according to the Software Publishers Association in Washington, D.C.
1088	The software firms that develop and distribute computer games is relatively tightknit.
1089	Many games are used to start up small companies, while other software adventures are sold or licensed to established companies on a freelance basis.
1090	Unlike the Nintendo users who are aged 8-17, players for PC software games range in age from the early 20s to mid-40s.
1091	PC software games are a kind of thinking person's version of the arcade-style video games that appeal to younger audiences.
1092	More mature themes -- from singles bars and strip poker to complex studies of the political and economic unification of Japan -- have helped build a loyal following of players who are defying the game-playing fads found in arcades.
1093	The games also feature more adult-oriented themes and parodies.
1094	"PC players are the type who will be here for the long run," said Johnny Wilson, associate editor of Computer Gaming World Magazine, an Anaheim, Calif., trade publication.
1095	'Kickoff') series of football games, the first two installations of which were released under the title On the Ball in English-speaking countries.The German Government, as a part of the Gamescom fair, has introduced an investment programme aimed towards the countrywide online games industry, with a purpose to offer assistance of as much as 50% of the cost of development.Within Germany there is a popular taste for historical trade and warfare simulations, notably exceeding that of many other countries.
1096	While the trade association did not collect data before 1987, research director Ann Stephens said computer game sales have grown consistently since the early 1980s.
1097	The increase in sales is due in part to the rising popularity of IBM-style personal computers that run on the DOS operating system.
1098	From 1987 to 1988, sales for programs played on IBM and lower-priced clone machines grew 60 percent to $124 million, according to the Software Publishers Association.
1099	Titles such as The Settlers, Die Vlker Anno 1602 have dominated the German sales charts for years".
1100	Released in 1998, Anno 1602 by Sunflowers Interactive was Germany's best-selling computer game of all time as of December 2002, with sales of 2.5 million copies worldwide and 1.7 million in the German market.
1101	Its sequel, Anno 1503, broke its sales record to become Germany's fastest full-price computer game to reach 500,000 domestic sales.
1102	It ultimately sold over one million units in German-speaking countries, and, when combined with its predecessor, reached 4.5 million sales worldwide by October 2006.
1103	A total of 3,061 PlayStation games were released, with cumulative sales of 967million units.The PlayStation signalled Sony's rise to power in the video game industry.
1104	By contrast, the PC games -- which range in price from $30 to $80 -- require less manual dexterity and more intellectual muscle.
1105	Players can spend nearly as much time reading the manual as they do playing the game.
1106	The games come with manuals containing detailed information and background on plot, characters, settings and techniques.
1107	That appeals to the background of most players, many of who spent their childhoods acting out role-playing board games such as "Dungeons and Dragons."
1108	The heavy documentation and complex plots make the computer games last much longer than arcade-style games.
1109	A medieval fantasy called "Might and Magic" -- from New World Computing Inc. in Van Nuys, Calif. -- can take 150 hours to complete.
1110	Most games, whether medieval fantasy or contemporary action, feature the same themes: a hero, one or more villains, some ultimate goal, romance, a climax and dramatic resolution of the game.
1111	Beyond fantasy in faraway lands, many titles are based on real-life events.
1112	Solid combat, a multiple-choice ending, great music and world-building, and a deft balance of action, adventure, and role-playing helped make Fable 2 both the pinnacle of the series and one of the finest bits of escapist fantasy ever coded.When I was younger, few games settled an argument like GoldenEye.
1113	It wasn't drenched in fantasy tropes and pathos, but rather brimming with color, humor, and some of the weirdest characters and events I'd ever seen in a game.
1114	Geralts fantasy world is one of mud, thatch and metal, his main quests are freelance work, and he loves a game of cards down the pub.
1115	Regardless of class or difficulty level, DOS2 is a fun fantasy world to get lost in no matter what.
1116	Solid combat, a multiple-choice ending, great music and world-building, and a deft balance of action, adventure, and role-playing helped make Fable 2 both the pinnacle of the series and one of the finest bits of escapist fantasy ever coded.
1117	If a player cannot identify the silhouette of a particular plane, the game will send you back to the preceding stage.
1118	For in-depth geography, "Where in the World Is Carmen Sandiego" comes with its own world almanac and requires players to identify areas across the globe to track down a ring of international thieves.
1119	"Leisure Suit Larry in the Land of the Lounge Lizards" follows the title character through hot tubs and singles bars in Las Vegas.
1120	There also are racier games, such as "Strip Poker" from Artworks, and black-market programs that feature pornographic material.
1121	He shares the code with friends, who port it to the IBM PC, and it spreads like wildfire.
1122	It had made its way to Hungary, where programmers created versions for the Apple II and Commodore 64.
1123	Soon after came commercial versions for the Commodore 64, Amiga, Atari ST and Apple II, all made possible with various licences and sub-licences.
1124	Much like the MSX2 version, the English localization of the NES versions contains numerous instances of erroneous grammar, such as "Contact missing our Grey Fox", "Uh-Oh!
1125	All these deals were based on uncertain foundations; the legal situation was far from clear, thanks in large part to the difficulty of doing business deals in the Soviet Union.At one point a representative from Andromeda and games publisher Henk Rogers both flew out to Moscow to try and secure a water-tight deal for the rights.
1126	"After 10 years of being left out of Tetris licensing deals arranged by a government that no longer exists, modest Alexey is finally getting his due."
1127	It secured them, and promptly demanded that Atari destroy its remaining cartridges.1988  In response to this fight for rights, the USSR created an organisation called Elektronorgtechnica to market the game and sell permission to create versions.
1128	Initially, a now-privatised Elektronorgtechnica was a partner, but the pair later bought out all remaining rights.
1129	But because Pajitnov had been working for the Soviet Academy of Sciences at the time, none of the profits were passed to him.1989  The Game Boy version of Tetris is released: the most popular version of all.
1130	"Alexey Pajitnov is perhaps the most famous game designer in the world, yet he's always been good-natured and philosophical about being denied the profits from his game," said Rogers at the time.
1131	To this day the company aggressively protects its brand with legal action.
1132	Having resisted for so long, Sony is finally giving in and allowing cross-play on the PS4 for select third party content, meaning PlayStation 4 owners will soon get to play the same game against people on competing consoles.In a blog post, Sony say:Following a comprehensive evaluation process, SIE has identified a path toward supporting cross-platform features for select third party content.
1133	We know that Rocket League players and our own community want to know what this means for them as well, but we dont have any updates at the moment.
1134	In the meantime, we recommend reaching out to PlayStation directly for any further comment.
1135	Weve asked Sony and will keep readers posted about any cross-console multiplayer news that we hear.Update - 2:19 PM: Asked about possible cross-console play for Rocket League a host of other games, a Sony rep told Kotaku: ...we have no plans to announce at this point, but our goal remains to take a more open stance with cross-platform support thats aligned with our mission to deliver the best consumer experience.
1136	And heres an Activision-Blizzard rep, replying to questions about any plans for Destiny and Black Ops cross-platform play with PlayStation (and presumably our Overwatch and Diablo inquiries, which were posed to Blizzard PR, as well): Weve had a great experience with cross-play for Hearthstone on other platforms and have witnessed how compelling it can be for our community.
1137	What do you think about cross platform?<mct>Theres still a lot of work to do on both our side and the platform side to understand whether cross-play might be integrated into our other games, so well be watching the upcoming test and will assess what the potential impact of this feature would be for our players and our games.
1138	Take Two had nothing to share at this time regarding its 2K games.
1139	Heres a rep for Microsoft: We would love to bring players on PlayStation 4 into our Minecraft ecosystem as well, but have nothing further to share at this time.
1140	These are the games we're most nostalgic for from the legendary company.Atari's first home video game console, Atari 2600, debuted in 1972.
1141	In 2021, Atari had a worldwide release of Atari VCS  a combo console/PC device where players can get their nostalgic fix with dozens of Atari 2600 and Arcade titles (and also use it as a hub for their streaming accounts).To celebrate where it all began, we've compiled a list of our 10 favorite Atari games.The first game ever developed by Atari Inc., Pong was one of the most influential video games ever created and the first to gain widespread mainstream popularity.
1142	The U.S. branch of the company filed for bankruptcy in 2013, but the brand lives on, as do fond memories of its classic games that were played with joysticks or paddles.
1143	Price: around pounds 15.17 FINAL FIGHT Final Fight is a classic beat-'em-up that sparked off a whole variety of fighting games with its two-on-two hard-core action.
1144	"Though years old, and one of the most basic-looking games around, Sensible Soccer is a classic football game," says Ed.
1145	Price: pounds 29.99.37 MARVEL SUPER HEROES Another descendant of the Street Fighter series (see No 2), Marvel Super Heroes has proven more popular in Japan than over here, but that doesn't stop it being a classic beat-'em-up.
1146	Simon Carless recommends Grand Theft Auto for its "amazing soundtrack and the massive city that you can drive anywhere around".By: DMA (1997).On: PlayStation & PC-CD.Price: pounds 19.99.41 POINT BLANK This arcade classic made a giant leap onto the PlayStation last year, and with great results.
1147	A 2-D take on table tennis, Pong has two players controlling paddles and trying to knock the ball into the opponent's screen.
1148	The sprawling adventure has you controlling Pitfall Harry, navigating jungle hazards as you swing over crocodiles, jump over scorpions, and leap across the titular pits while collecting treasure.
1149	Without Pitfall Harry, there would be no Mario, and there might be no Jack Black, who was featured in the game's commercial.Gaming's most famous amphibian hopped into the spotlight with Frogger, a platforming game that had you controlling a frog through rush-hour traffic and raging rapids to get home under a strict time limit.
1150	Endlessly cloned and available for virtually every system (and graphing calculator) known to man, Pong is about as simple  and utterly addictive  as it gets.It may look painfully simplistic by modern standards  as your character is a square and the fierce dragons pretty much look like ducks  but, for its time, Adventure was a revelation.
1151	Its pop culture influence reached all the way to a 1998 episode of Seinfeld, where George Costanza attempted to navigate a Frogger arcade cabinet through the treacherous Manhattan streets.Another arcade port, Q*bert lost the cool isometric perspective but none of the addictive gameplay that made it such a classic.
1152	(Game designer Warren Robinett hid his name in a secret room.)
1153	What it lacked in graphics, it more than made up for in imagination.The Atari 2600 version of the arcade classic proved the system could do a good port and saved a generation of gamers pocketfuls of quarters.
1154	They gradually start moving faster and faster as the tempo of the sound effects  and your heart rate  increases until either they're all dead or you're destroyed.The Atari port may have changed the stylish vector graphics into chunky pixels, but it retained the satisfying gameplay of the arcade original.
1155	Due to memory constraints, the Japanese version was written entirely in katakana (with character names presented in Roman letters), while the English version is written entirely in uppercase, has numerous instances of erroneous grammar and misspellings, and features fewer radio calls than the Japanese version (with 56% of the calls kept) and shortened messages.On August 18, 2004, Konami released a port of the MSX2 Metal Gear for feature phones through their Konami Net DX service in Japan as a promotional tie-in for Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater.
1156	This updated port served as the basis for the version included on the second disc of Subsistence (the expanded edition of Metal Gear Solid 3) for the PlayStation 2 released in 2005, and later in the HD Edition released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in 2011 and for PlayStation Vita in 2012.The MSX2 Metal Gear would be released as a Virtual Console download for the Wii in Japan on December 8, 2009.
1157	An Amiga port of the NES version was announced in 1989, but was not released; although an unofficial Amiga port of the MSX2 version developed by hobbyist programmer h0ffman in May 2021.A port of Metal Gear for the Family Computer (or Famicom) was released in Japan on December 22, 1987.
1158	This was the first version of Metal Gear that was released in North America, since the MSX2 platform was never released in that market.According to Kojima, the port was developed by another Konami division at Tokyo which was given the source code from the MSX2 version without the consent of the original team.
1159	Many changes were made during the porting process that later led to this version being publicly disowned by Kojima years after its Masahiro Ueno, who worked as a programmer for the NES version, has stated that the staff who worked on the port were given a three-month deadline and were ordered to make the port as different as possible from the MSX2 version.
1160	An emulated port of the Famicom version was also included in a bonus disc packaged alongside Metal Gear Solid: The Twin Snakes in a limited edition GameCube console bundle released in Japan.Ports of both the MSX2 and NES Metal Gear versions were released for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on October 24, 2023 as a part of volume 1 of the Metal Gear Solid: Master Collection.Metal Gear is also available and ported for the Legacy Collection, which is only for the PlayStation 3.The MSX2 version of Metal Gear was ranked on MSX Magazine's top 20 best selling MSX games in Japan for five months, debuting at no.
1161	You control a cannon on the ground, shooting up at rows of pixellated aliens moving in formation across the screen.
1162	Unlike other shooters of the day that kept you on one plane, you could pilot your spaceship all across the screen, trying to break up as many asteroids as possible while dodging and shooting flying saucers.
1163	Sure, ostriches can't fly, but that's the fun of Joust, which has you battling other knights on buzzards, collecting eggs, and dodging pterodactyls.
1164	Its influence is felt to this day in games such as Geometry Wars and Super Stardust HD.Despite selling millions of copies, the Atari 2600 Pac-Man was widely derided as an inferior port, lacking much of what made the original so great.
1165	Gaming's original feminist Ms. Pac-Man one-upped her hubby in every way and was as close to the arcade as you could get at home, restoring glory to the tarnished Pac name.Largely credited with creating the side-scrolling platformer genre, Pitfall!
1166	Outside of catching the original 151 Pokemon the game itself relied heavily on the nostalgia of the Pokemon franchise and augmented reality gimmick of having them show up in the real world.
1167	The original Borderlands captured the attention of gamers, seemingly from out of nowhere, and its sequel took everything that made the original great and expanded on it.
1168	Silently sprinting along rooftops, ducking through secret mansion passages  the game didn't just make you feel like a thief, it made you feel like a master of the craft.SimCity 2000 may not be the most complex or original of the city-building series, but its definitely the most iconic.
1169	The sequel to the original SimCity is a beautiful, funny, detailed sandbox that gives players control of a huge, customizable map that they can manage how they see fit.
1170	When Tony Hawk Pro Skater 2 came out, and improved upon the original in virtually every single way imaginable (even more flexible controls, an expanded soundtrack, more unlockable secrets, custom skaters, even a park editor!
1171	It trod a brilliant tightrope, capturing the inherent weirdness of the original - the baroque architecture and labyrinthian environments that flipped the bird to logic - while updating the control scheme to a fluid over-the-shoulder camera far more suited to the way we play games today.
1172	You play as a long-snouted, armless orange thing as you jump around a pyramid, trying to touch every cube while avoiding Coily the snake and other creatures.
1173	In addition to more modern games like Q*bert Rebooted and 2019's Q*bert, the iconic character has shown up in the films Wreck-It-Ralph (2012) and Pixels (2015).Who needs horses when you can joust on a flying ostrich?
1174	Minecraft was the undisputed indie success story of 2010.
1175	Or heard a publisher enthuse about how many millions of units it's expected to ship this financial year.There is just Minecraft, and the people who play it.Of course, you could say this about any indie game.
1176	But few, if any indie games ever got as popular as Minecraft has.
1177	And almost entirely through the power of word-of-mouth.Having an indie game succeed to such an extent without the backing of a publisher (like some have on the Xbox 360 or PlayStation Network) threw a flag in the ground.
1178	Heres how it works.We look back at the history of indie gaming, from bedroom coders through crowd-funding to the current crowded scene.These days, we barely blink an eye at the idea that a game can come from nowhere and shake through word-of-mouth, clever concepts, a bit of cool technology like Portals well, portals or simply by hooking into some reservoir of good feeling, and accomplish more than any marketing budget can dream of.
1179	Undertale is one of its most beloved RPGs.Indeed, the world of indie development is now so important that its hard to remember that its only really a decade or so old.
1180	Thats not to say that there werent indie games before then, as well see, but it was only really with the launch of Steam on PC and services like Xbox Live Arcade that the systems were in place to both get games in front of a mainstream audience, and provide the necessary ecosystem for them to quickly and confidently pay for new games.In 1979 Richard Garriott set out on his path to buying a castle and going into space by selling copies of his first RPG, Akalabeth, in ziploc bags at his local computer store The massive success of indie games on Steam has of course come with attendant pitfalls.
1181	Steam Greenlight made it easier for indie games to get on Steam but became a popularity contest that was easily gamed, leading Valve to replace it with Steam Direct.All this is largely taken for granted these days, with the big challenge for modern indie games being to stand out.
1182	Yet much of its appeal seems to lie in what it's not, rather than what it is.It is, first things first (and before I am lynched by Minecraft fans), a good game.
1183	They are preceded for months (and sometimes years) by marketing double-speak, cinematic trailers, developer diaries, E3 demonstrations, annoying website ads and breathless preview coverage.That machine, more often than not (the truly great games excepted), is lying to gamers.
1184	Or, on a good day, being very selective in what truths it's telling.
1185	Which to be fair is its job, since that machine's job is to make money, but still.
1186	People don't like being lied to, and as a consequence, they don't like not knowing who to trust.The products that come from this machine are a very different thing to the games of twenty or even ten years ago.
1187	Where once small teams - or sometimes even individuals - could shape a title into a work with a unique vision and flair, today's multi-million dollar blockbusters are focus-tested to within an inch of their lives, then worked on by so many hundreds of developers, designers, artists and outsourced artists that the final product is, with very few exceptions, a slick, soulless affair.Minecraft, on the other hand, has none of that baggage.
1188	There is Minecraft, there are people who play Minecraft, and there are people who talk about Minecraft.You've never seen its creator, Markus "Notch" Persson, interviewed by Geoff Keighley about how amazing his amazing new game is going to be.
1189	"It boasts an amazing combination of superlative graphics, flawless structure, and outstanding playability."
1190	The amazing plot, with more twists than a roller-coaster, has placed the game firmly in the strategy history books.
1191	"With practice, you can do incredible passes and plays, and score some amazing goals."
1192	Price: pounds 10.25 BATTLEZONE Battlezone is a futuristic tactical game that has introduced some of the best 3D graphics to complement some amazing gameplay.
1193	With no advertising budget, it's grown from its release in 2009 to one of the biggest and most popular games in the world, with nearly one million copies sold.
1194	People may love Minecraft, but I think, deep down, that many of them love the idea of Minecraft more.
1195	They love the fact a game can be released in this day and age with no advertising budget, no anime tie-in and no console-exclusive demos and still not just be fun, but truly succeed, going head-to-head with so-called blockbusters in both sales and media coverage.They love the fact it's a game that was recommended to them not by an ad campaign, or a magazine that jostled for an exclusive review, but by their friends.Just like the olden days.
1196	You might disagree (we hope you do, in fact), but our wish is that youll leave with a better understanding of what we love about video games.
1197	And it shows there's room for plenty more games like it.
1198	Some content, such as this article, has been migrated to VG247 for posterity after USgamer's closure - but it has not been edited or further vetted by the VG247 team.Loot boxes are a trend that the game industry has heartily bought into in 2017.
1199	A number of players fear the slippery slope: if you ignore loot boxes now, then publishers and developers will double down on the form.
1200	Bethesda made a heap of money on top of the $60 fans paid for the Xbox 360 version of Oblivion.In response to loot boxes these days, people are actually stating a preference for direct microtransactions like the horse armor.
1201	Loot boxes are the current zeitgeist for our industry.
1202	The player wants the unlockable items and these blind boxes are the only way to get them.
1203	Despite this, the genesis of loot boxes stretches farther back.Publishers and developers sometimes entice players by making more expensive versions of loot boxes, which have a better chance to drop better stuff.
1204	Some games, like Overwatch, offer seasonal, limited time events, encouraging players to buy more boxes to get the seasonal skins they want.The loot box model started in Chinese and Korean and free-to-play games, but the first shot at them on the Western side of things was Valve's Team Fortress 2.
1205	Tell me something about MMO games<mct>What is MMO games<mct>MMOs that fell on hard times, like Star Trek Online and Lords of the Rings Online, switched to the model when they went free-to-play as well.There were paid games that offered loot boxes at the same time, though usually they left the mechanic for online multiplayer modes.
1206	They've been around for almost a decade in the online space, but since the release and success of Overwatch in 2016, the business model has had more visibility.
1207	Major developers and publishers have adopted the model before and since.
1208	Some have sworn never to buy a game with the business model attached.
1209	Weve listened to the feedback and decided to do away with it moving forward," EA senior director of corporate communications John Reseburg told GamesBeat in 2013.Online passes ended as one of the few times that the industry completely backed away from a business model with additional transactions.
1210	In June 2011, Valve transitioned the game to a free-to-play business model after the launch of the Mann-conomy update in 2010, which introduced crates and item trading.
1211	Then's it's a-okay.The backlash against loot boxes is rising in 2017, but business model and others like it have been around for some time in the industry's biggest games.
1212	What's changed in this case is Shadow of War bringing the loot boxes into the single-player side of the equation, while most games have kept the business model purely on the multiplayer side of the things.
1213	What thrust the mechanic into the spotlight was a trio of major releases: Forza Motorsport 7, Middle-Earth: Shadow of War, and Star Wars: Battlefront 2.Together, the three have fueled a backlash against loot boxes.
1214	Some of the loot boxe games mentioned at the beginning of this article also have season passes.
1215	The perception is simply that the discounts are worthwhile, especially for the avid and fervent fans of a game.All of this brings us to loot boxes.
1216	In some cases, there are alternate methods of purchase available, but the random luck of the loot box is designed to be the easiest way.They've been used in digital collectible card games (CCG)for some time now as a digital form of the trading card booster pack.
1217	Rarity is one of the common ways companies get players to pick up further loot boxes; open more boxes, get a chance at a better, more rare item.
1218	Releases from 2016 were riddled with loot boxes: Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare has supply drops and zombie crates, Halo 5: Guardians has REQ Packs, Battlefield 1 has Battlepacks, and Gears of War 4 has Gear Packs.Loot boxes began in countries like China and Korea, and those countries have since cracked down on the business model as a form of unregulated gambling.
1219	China's Ministry of Culture laid down laws in 2016 that forced all companies to disclose the odds of specific items dropping from loot boxes in their games.
1220	Fans of Overwatch are generally fine with loot boxes, because they feel that only cosmetic items like skins, emotes, and sprays come from them.
1221	Microtransactions in video games?<mct>What do you think about micro transactions?<mct>So let's wander back through the history of all the ways that publishers have aimed to drain your wallet.Microtransactions first gained large-scale visibility way back in 2006.
1222	Experimental gameplay from indie game development drew more attention in the late 2000s and 2010s aided by independent digital distribution, as large publishers focused on triple-A titles were extremely risk-averse.
1223	It was still early in the Xbox 360's lifespan and Oblivion stood as a and fan-favorite RPG exclusive for the console.Microsoft had previously offered up the idea of microtransactions in early 2005, as a feature of the new Xbox Live Marketplace prior to the launch of the Xbox 360.
1224	The platform holder played microtransactions up as a new revenue stream for publishers and developers.
1225	None of these early microtransactions took off in a major way, but it was all about Microsoft showing a proof of concept to other publishers.Bethesda was the first third party publisher to jump-in on Microsoft's idea.
1226	Instead, they could directly buy what they wanted for $1 to $5.
1227	"At the heart of it'll be a points-like system where you buy points and then use those points to make purchases."
1228	If you were planning to buy all the content, you saved $8.The trick is, most players weren't likely to buy all the DLC.
1229	By bundling everything up and offering a discount, Rockstar Games was able to entice players to buy content they normally wouldn't.The 2011 reboot of Mortal Kombat, which actually launched a month before L.A. Noire, offered its Season Pass in June of that year.
1230	Much like players of Magic the Gathering buy blind booster packs to get the cards they want, titles like Hearthstone and Gwent have players tearing open digital packs.
1231	This is one of the earlier mentions of the concept of games-as-a-service.Microsoft itself offered a winter-themed outfit for Kameo: Elements of Power for $2.50, alongside new maps for Perfect Dark Zero and new cars for Project Gotham Racing 3.
1232	For 200 Microsoft Points ($2.50) on Xbox 360 or $1.99 on PC, players could purchase alternate armor sets for their in-game steed.
1233	Given that, horse armor seems rather normal and inexpensive in comparison.The gaming industry has always had a problem with the second-hand market.
1234	Fans were previously fine with the idea of microtransactions, but were absolutely shocked by the pricing of the horse armor.
1235	Fans bought the horse armor, making it one of the Top 10 purchased downloads for the game on Xbox Live.
1236	We'll see what folks think and put out a few others we have planned and figure out where to go from there," said Bethesda VP of PR marketing Pete Hines at the time.
1237	"Some folks seem excited and are already using it, others don't want it.
1238	Maybe those folks will really want the Orrery, or the Wizard's Tower.
1239	Instead of getting a blind box of random content, people would rather have the ability to directly purchase what they want in a game.
1240	It's easy to see why companies want to move in this direction, and I can't say I'd do anything different, as WoW has provided me with hours upon hours of enjoyment.
1241	If you see him around a convention, he's not hard to spot: Black guy, glasses, and a tie.Please enable JavaScript to see comments.JOIN THE WAR EFFORT Thanks to Helldivers 2, tricking normal people into role-playing has never been easier NINTENDO OUI Pokemon Legends Z-A has the chance to redeem one of the series' most disappointing entries RETRO TROOPER Star Wars: Dark Forces Remaster is a must-play modern study of overlooked FPS history FLATTENING THE CURVE Elden Ring Shadow of the Erdtree might have actually solved Souls DLCs scaling problem, and its all thanks to Sekiro TAKE A LOOK Warframe's Dante Unbound update is a hoot - with new reworks, tennogen cosmetics, and new "page master" frame NIER ENOUGH Sure, wed all love a Nier sequel, but what I really want is the return of another Yoko Taro classic STAGE RIGHT Princess Peach Showtime is obviously for Nintendo's younger players, but its still delightful  hands-on HELLISH PAST Want to know where Helldivers 2 is going?
1242	Buy a game new and you'd get a code that would unlock new outfits, characters, or items.
1243	The difference was inputting the code wouldn't unlock extra content, it would unlock previously-standard features.
1244	So what is the gaming community going to do about it?Sign in and unlock a world of features Get access to commenting, homepage personalisation, newsletters, and more!Forza Motorsport 7 Xbox One,PC Middle-earth: Shadow of War Android,iOS,PS4,Xbox One,PC Overwatch PS4,Xbox One,PC,Nintendo Switch Star Wars: Battlefront II PS2,Xbox,PSP,PC Mike Williams Reviews Editor, USgamer M.H.
1245	Tiger Woods PGA Tour 11 was the first game with the system, requiring the online pass code to unlock online team play and other online modes.
1246	The pass was offered that year for NCAA Football 11, NHL 11, Madden NFL 11, NBA 11, FIFA 11, and EA Sports MMA.
1247	Buying any of those games second-hand meant having to pay $10 for a new pass to unlock the online play.
1248	The online pass built upon an idea Sony Computer Entertainment had earlier tried: SOCOM U.S. Navy SEALs: Fireteam Bravo 3 for PlayStation Portable came with an unlock code for online multiplayer.
1249	That season pass would establish the fighting game standard, giving players access to all additional character releases.
1250	This also led to the rise of Deluxe Editions, which are generally just the base game with the season pass already included.Season Passes are still going strong to this day.
1251	Hell, even The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild offered a season pass this year, to very little in the way of condemnation for a publisher that previously avoided such measures.
1252	We want to reserve EA Sports online services for people who pay EA to access them," said current EA CEO Andrew Wilson, who was EA Sports senior vice president at the time.
1253	"In order to continue to enhance the online experiences that are attracting nearly five million connected game sessions a day, again, we think it's fair to get paid for the services we provide and to reserve these online services for people who pay EA to access them."
1254	Forza Motorsport 7 has the Car Pass, giving you access to six monthly car releases (42 cars in total) for $29.99.
1255	Middle-Earth: Shadow of War has an Expansion Pass, offering access to four expansions for $39.99.
1256	Learn more Open the app on your smartphone or tablet to access special features in supported games.
1257	Paid Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack required to play the Nintendo 64  Nintendo Switch Online, Game Boy Advance - Nintendo Switch Online and SEGA Genesis  Nintendo Switch Online collections of games, and to access the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe  Booster Course Pass, Animal Crossing: New Horizons  Happy Home Paradise and Splatoon 2: Octo Expansion DLC at no additional cost.
1258	Persistent Internet, compatible smartphone, and Nintendo Account age 13+ required to access some online features on the app, including voice chat.
1259	**Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack members can access this DLC for no additional charge (Nintendo Switch Online members may access DLC but must pay like non-members).
1260	It was there to protect against piracy, which was a major problem for the PSP.Once EA launched games with online passes, Ubisoft followed suit a year later by opening up the Uplay Passport system.
1261	"Initially launched as an effort to package a full menu of online content and services, many players didnt respond to the format.
1262	I'd say that's probably a victory?A year after Electronic Arts launched the online pass, Rockstar Games offered their own pass.
1263	Activision's Call of Duty franchise launched the Call of Duty Elite membership for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 in September 2011, acting somewhat like a Season Pass.
1264	Mass Effect 3's Galaxy at War multiplayer launched with purchasable equipment packs.
1265	Battlefield 4 launched with Battlepacks, adding real-money purchases in 2014.
1266	In 1998, the network launched a new homepage that consolidated the individual sites as system channels under the IGN brand.
1267	The site, SciFI.ign.com redirects to the recently created SciFiBrain.ign.com, which covers some of the content of the old Sci-Fi site.In 2002, IGN launched a dedicated video game FAQs site specifically designed to host user-submitted guides.
1268	The Rockstar Pass for L.A. Noire gave players access to all of the planned downloadable contenttwo additional cases, new outfits, new weapons, and an item collection challengeat a solid discount.
1269	The Season Pass practice eventually moved to most major titles in 2011 and beyond, including Borderlands 2, Destiny, Evolve, Gears of War 3, Forza Motorsport 4, and Battlefield 3.Those who take issue with the system point out that publishers are essentially getting players to pre-order additional content: You put down $60 for the game and at the same time $20-30 for the downloadable content.
1270	Counter-Strike: Global Offensive added weapon cases in 2013, requiring an additional key to unlock.
1271	In contrast, Shadow of War is getting pushback because the orcs you can gain from War Chests impart direct gameplay benefits.Even without the gambling conversation regarding loot boxes, there are still whales and even casual players who keep buying into additional games content.
1272	Players balk at prices for additional game content, unless it's their favorite platform holder, publisher, developer, or game series.
1273	Learn more Play additional courses from throughout the Mario Kart series.
1274	Elite was a $50 a year subscription fee that unlocked access to all CoD map packs for that year, in addition to streaming content, a special site, and more.
1275	In many cases, these digital booster packs are the only way to get the cards, making them the only real method of progression in CCGs.
1276	Inside of the box can be costumes, skills, gear, or random items specific to the game.
1277	South Korea has tried to draft similar legislation.As part of the gambling conversation, folks and organizations have begun to understand that since real-money can enter the picture, these virtual items carry real value.
1278	The game involves exploring a 2D environment, finding and using items which each have prescribed abilities, and fighting dragons in real-time like in an action game.
1279	Valve is under several lawsuits involving underage and illegal online gambling related to Counter-Strike: Global Offensive.
1280	Apparently, there is a long-standing problem of people using rare CS:GO skins to bet on professional matches.
1281	Which makes sense, given that some skins are worth hundreds of dollars.Unfortunately, it's a grey area at the moment, especially in the United States.
1282	Overwatch costs $40 for the standard edition, but I've probably put $10 into the game during each seasonal event to get some of the special skins.
1283	Get all the benefits of Nintendo Switch Online, plus access to classic Nintendo 64, Game Boy Advance, and Sega Genesis games, along with select DLC.Party like its 1996 with classic Nintendo 64 games like Mario Kart 64, GoldenEye 007, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, and more!Includes classics like The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap and Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3.Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack members also get access a collection of SEGA Genesis gameslike Sonic the Hedgehog 2 and Golden Axethat are great to play anytime, anywhere!Your Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership gives you access to select DLC* at no additional charge!A total of 48 courses from throughout the Mario Kart series are racing to the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe game!
1284	Get creative with furniture and design options, then share your ideas with players all over the world!Play as an Octoling in this large-scale downloadable content that features a full-on single-player adventure spanning 80 missions starring Agent 8, a character who awakens on a dark subway platform.Learn how to download DLC with your Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership in this helpful video.Wondering which Nintendo Switch Online membership you should purchase?
1285	Learn more Watch these videos to learn more about the features included in each membership option.Try Nintendo Switch Online for free!Want to try before you buy?
1286	Test out a Nintendo Switch Online membership with a free 7-day trial.Here are some frequently asked questions (and answers!)
1287	about Nintendo Switch Online and Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack.A paid Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pass membership includes additional benefits like access to the Nintendo 64 - Nintendo Switch Online and SEGA Genesis - Nintendo Switch Online game libraries.
1288	For the most up-to-date information, select Nintendo Switch Online from the HOME Menu of your Nintendo Switch console.A paid Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pass membership includes access to add-on content like the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe - Booster Course Pass, the Splatoon 2: Octo Expansion, and the Animal Crossing: New Horizons  Happy Home Paradise DLC.
1289	For the latest updates, choose Nintendo Switch Online from the HOME Menu of your Nintendo Switch console.Any Nintendo Switch Online membership (sold separately) and Nintendo Account required for online features.
1290	Free trial automatically converts to 1-month auto-renewing membership unless automatic renewal is turned off by the end of the free trial.
1291	Content will release in 6 waves until the end of 2023.Join Lottie and her team on a distant resort archipelago and help turn the dream vacation homes of your favorite Animal Crossing characters into a reality.
1292	Each of you can enjoy all the benefits of a Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack for only about $10 per person a yearshare the fun and share the savings!See how many users are allowed with each type of membership.1 1 Enjoy online play in compatible games like Splatoon 3 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.
1293	Learn more Your save data is automatically stored safely online for compatible games.
1294	Online features, Save Data Cloud, and Nintendo Switch Online smartphone app features available in compatible games.
1295	Please note that the full games are required to play the DLC.
1296	*Paid Nintendo Switch Online membership required at the time of purchase and redemption of Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers.
1297	Full version of game required to use DLC for that game.
1298	For the most up-to-date information, select Nintendo Switch Online from the HOME Menu of your Nintendo Switch console.One free, seven-day trial of the Nintendo Switch Online service is available per Nintendo Account, through Nintendo eShop on your device.
1299	A free trial for Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack, however, is not available.Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack is offered everywhere that Nintendo Switch Online is available.Select games are added throughout the year and more will be added in the foreseeable future.
1300	Credit card / PayPal account required for 18+.
1301	Free trial cannot be redeemed by a Nintendo Account with an active individual membership or family membership.
1302	Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers must be redeemed within 12 months from purchase date, have no cash value, and cannot be transferred, returned, or redeemed for cash.
1303	Each Nintendo Switch Game Voucher may be redeemed for one game offered as part of the catalog.
1304	To receive promotional value, Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers must be redeemed for two games with a cumulative price that is higher than the purchase price of the Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers.
1305	Baer died on Saturday.
1306	He was 92.Ralph H. Baer, the man widely acknowledged as the "father of home video games" for his pioneering work in electronics and television engineering, died on Saturday at his home in Manchester, N.H.
1307	His wife of 53 years, the former Dena Whinston, died in 2006.Steve Mullis is a Web producer at NPR.
1308	He was 92.Jens Wolf /DPA /Landov hide caption German-American game developer Ralph Baer shows the prototype of the first games console which was invented by him during a press conference on the Games Convention Online in Leipzig, Germany in 2009.
1309	Over the years they churned out seven prototypes in a secret workshop, before landing on a version that Baer and Sanders would use to file the first video game patent in 1971.The "Brown Box" was licensed to Magnavox and went on sale as the Odyssey in 1972  the world's first video game system.
1310	Over 20 years, Magnavox won more than $100 million in patent lawsuits involving the Odyssey, according to the New York Times.Baer went on to hold more than 150 U.S. and foreign patents for his inventions, including everything from talking door mats and an automatic tone arm for programmable record players.
1311	Priced at $100 (though Baer had recommended $19.95), the Odyssey sold more than 100,000 units its first year and 300,000 by 1975.The Magnavox Odyssey  derived from Ralph Baer's "Brown Box" invention  was sold as the first home video game system in 1972.Rich Strauss/National Museum of American History hide caption The Magnavox Odyssey  derived from Ralph Baer's "Brown Box" invention  was sold as the first home video game system in 1972.When Atari's Pong debuted just months after the Odyssey went to market, Sanders and Magnavox sued them for copyright infringement.
1312	"Coming up with novel ideas and converting them into real products has always been as natural as breathing for me," Baer wrote.Son of a Factory Worker Fled Nazis Ralph Henry Baer's story and life of invention began in the town of Pirmasens, Germany, on March 8, 1922.
1313	Among his other famous inventions was the electronic memory game Simon, which he created with Howard Morrison, that went on to be a pop sensation and is still sold today.Inventing things was simply part of who Baer was, as he wrote in his 2005 autobiography Videogames: The Beginning.
1314	The son of a Jewish shoe factory worker, the family fled from Hitler and his Nazis and emigrated to the Bronx in New York in 1938.When he was 16, he saw an ad for a correspondence course for learning how to service radios and televisions.
1315	Using a large chunk of the wages he earned working in a factory, Baer took the course and finished in a few months, eventually quitting the factory to fix radios.Baer was drafted into the U.S. Army in 1943 as an intelligence officer.
1316	He wrote training documents for Allied troops preparing for D-Day, then landed an assignment with Gen. Eisenhower's headquarters.In his spare time he studied algebra and fixed radios, but was also trained as an expert in small arms.
1317	He donated much of his collection of early video game prototypes to museums, including the Smithsonian Institution.Baer is survived by his two sons, a daughter and four grandchildren.
1318	Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile Taffy9 caisacordode zpahb My strawberries have withered.
1319	This is not the real world, and these were not some mutant GM strawberries; in fact, they weren't really strawberries at all.
1320	My strawberries are still dead; romance, it would appear, is not.
1321	No strawberries are permitted to wither in the Innes household: when her partner accidentally planted a field full of them in the evening, Cassandra set her alarm for 3am so that she could wake to harvest them as they ripened.
1322	I planted them this morning, after acquiring the seeds for the bargain price of 10 coins and being assured of their profitability as a crop.But I let the day get the best of me  I had work to do, lunch to eat, emails to read  and when I finally returned to check on my plot, the fruit had flourished, matured and died in the space of just a few short hours.
1323	But when the disaster struck, Zynga introduced a new crop to FarmVille  sweet seeds  the profits from which were channelled into the aid effort.
1324	This is FarmVille, a Facebook game for which I've been tilling digital soil all week, planting crops made up of mere bytes and pixels.Perhaps you've only heard of FarmVille from your cluttered Facebook news feed, informing you that so-and-so has just planted their 15th field of soybeans, or built their first barn, or earned a brightly coloured ribbon in recognition of their virtual agricultural achievements.
1325	When the site allowed its gamers to exchange virtual Valentine gifts online, 220m were sent and accepted within 18 hours; to get that into perspective, it's worth noting that Hallmark sells approximately 200m e-cards over the entire Valentine season.The object of FarmVille (which was recently launched as a standalone game for Facebook-refuseniks on Microsoft's MSN Games platform) is to build and maintain your own virtual farm  pay virtual coins for seeds, plant virtual crops and earn virtual profits.
1326	Crucially for its players, it is free to join FarmVille and you can enjoy a long and fruitful relationship with the game without ever spending a (real) penny.Crucially for its creators, there's a second option: you can use your real-world credit card to buy virtual goods and stay ahead of your friends in the FarmVille rankings.
1327	It's like a virtual pet, a Tamagotchi; you have to nurture it and look after it every day."
1328	Analysts agreed that the worldwide market in virtual goods was worth $6bn last year, with games accounting for 75 per cent of that figure.
1329	"The concept of spending money on virtual goods ought not to be as foreign as it sounds," Pincus insists.
1330	"Most things that we buy are based on virtual perceptions anyway, whether it's a branded orange juice or a watch.
1331	According to Pincus, FarmVille derives more than 90 per cent of its income from virtual goods, but the ways it earns the other 10 per cent have caused controversy.
1332	But your protests would be in vain: FarmVille, the world's biggest social game, has almost 80 million players  that's around 20 per cent of all Facebook users; more people than use Twitter or, indeed, live in the UK.
1333	A recent survey concluded that today's average social gamer is a 43-year-old woman.
1334	*** FarmVille was reared by the world's most successful stable of online social games, Zynga, which was founded in San Francisco in July 2007 and already has more than 500 employees and an estimated annual revenue of around $150m (97m).
1335	Mark Pincus, its 43 year-old founder and CEO  who named the company after his deceased bulldog  is a serial web entrepreneur whose previous businesses include the early social network Tribe.
1336	Once it became clear how profitable social gaming was going to be, more cash followed.
1337	Among their other successes are Caf World (a restaurant management title that's the world's second biggest social game, with more than 30 million users), Mafia Wars, Fishville and Texas Hold-Em Poker  all of them ranked in the top 10 social gaming applications of 2009.
1338	*** The power of online social games first became apparent in 2007, with the spectacular rise and fall of Scrabulous, a wildly popular Facebook game that imitated Scrabble to such a degree that Hasbro had it shut down; for a while Scrabulous catered to half a million users daily.
1339	FarmVille relies on Facebook for its existence, and without the social network its success would have been impossible.
1340	Some 30 million of them tend their crops daily.
1341	Most of these digital products are reasonably priced, but among the Valentine gifts on offer was a limited edition, $50 "diamond ring", which protects its recipient's crops from withering in perpetuity.
1342	Thanks to Pincus's connections, Zynga's launch was supported by some of the smartest money in Silicon Valley.
1343	"Zynga is very aggressive about finding techniques to keep people coming back and spending money on games," explains Chatfield.
1344	With money to be made and developers flocking to indie for all sorts of reasons (being tired of the big companies, wanting to make a go of an independent project) it became viable to create tools and systems to help make the scene.
1345	That investment looks like being a good one; including FarmVille, Zynga today boasts 230 million monthly active game users.
1346	Its 18 million "residents" instead go shopping, hang out with friends, work, trade and even have romantic entanglements.
1347	Despite having almost 19 million users, Pet Society remains outside the Top 10 Facebook applications.MyTown MyTown has been described as "Monopoly for the real world".
1348	Germany has the second-largest video games player base in Europe, with 44.3 million gamers in 2018, after Russia.
1349	The pricing of the deal was not disclosed.On July 27, 2010, The Walt Disney Company acquired Playdom in a $763 million deal.
1350	Disney initially paid $563 million for Playdom, which was the No.
1351	3 social game company with about 42 million monthly players at the time of the acquisition.
1352	The deal also included a further $200 million in additional payments if Playdom achieves certain growth thresholds.In May 2011, Playdom has been ordered by the Federal Trade Commission to pay $3 million in fines for collecting and disclosing children's information without parental approval.In April 2014, Playdom announced the closure of all online games on the Playdom site, including Gardens of Time, Marvel: Avengers Alliance, Kitchen Scramble, Pirates of the Caribbean: Isles of War, Ghosts of Mistwood, Disney City Girl, and Disney Words of Wonder.
1353	The London-based Playfish, for instance, owns Facebook games with combined player numbers of more than 50 million, prompting a massive traditional games firm, Electronic Arts, to acquire it (for more than $300m) in December.
1354	After Hasbro (which owns the rights to Scrabble in North America) and Mattel (which owns them for the rest of the world) noted the game's success, they tried to purchase Scrabulous, and then took legal action to shut it down.
1355	Zynga has made no bones about copying the successes of its smaller rivals, and Pincus was always a fan of farm games such as Farm Town  by the developers Slashkey  which looks and sounds eerily familiar to FarmVille fans.
1356	"I've lived in a little row house in the middle of San Francisco for 14 years," he says, "but I dream of having my own organic farm with lots of space, and animals running around.
1357	"FarmVille reminds me of the toy farm I had as a child," she says, "We'd make our own buildings out of cardboard and spend our money on the animals.
1358	"I don't have a farm fantasy, but FarmVille fulfils my inner need to beat my Facebook frenemies."
1359	The farm is like a comfort zone; it's easier to communicate about that than about who's going where for Christmas."
1360	And where else, you may ask, would anyone be prepared to spend real money on a farm vehicle that appeared only as an icon on their computer screen?
1361	Zynga's staff expected that about 2,500 of their friends and family might take it up overnight.
1362	You can cheat if you're playing online with strangers, but playing with friends is an incentive to be fair, and that brings the emotional rewards of competition.
1363	But online social gaming allows people to enjoy that traditional gaming experience with friends anywhere in the world.
1364	Cassandra Innes has even made new friends via FarmVille, after visiting fan sites in search of neighbours.
1365	Players are expected to work with friends to collect the necessary materials to grow their habitat, while the hidden object element set players to compete for the highest score in their social setting.Some large established video games developers are acquiring small operators to capitalize on the social gaming industry.
1366	It also prompts users to encourage friends to join in to help them gain more points.
1367	*** The continued success of The Archers should be evidence enough that people are fascinated by farms, whether they live in the country or not.
1368	It's also universally acceptable: you can show somebody a field and, whether they live in China or Manhattan, and whether it's your grand- mother or your niece, they'll all know what they're supposed to do with it."
1369	But you have to decide whether you just want to get rich quick, or whether having fun is part of the process.
1370	Nevertheless, each has made its mark on history, whether its changing entire genres, presenting unforgettable stories or as achievements in artistic excellence.
1371	It looks fantastic, whether witnessing a Turf War between Rathalos and Rajang or taking in the sights at Hoarfrost Reach.
1372	Whether its Atreus trying to discover himself or Kratos defining family in the face of annihilation, the story is an outstanding character study.You also cant say enough about the combat and how its expanded to include more options for combos and builds, whether its relying on weapons or your fists.
1373	Though the game bears almost no relation to real farming and its concerns, Pincus attributes FarmVille's fanbase to an urban fantasy of owning one's own smallholding.
1374	An early Facebook poker game from Zynga allowed players to spend real money on their chips  but not to cash out.
1375	Sort of like real life, but without its consequences  or pleasures.
1376	"I find myself talking to my family more about our nutty farms than about normal things.
1377	"Some of my neighbours' farms are awful," she says.
1378	Where else but FarmVille could you spend a tenner on a tractor and have enough change for a horse and a bag of aubergine seeds?
1379	These scams earned Zynga the ire of Silicon Valley's most powerful tech blogger, Michael Arrington of TechCrunch, and Zynga and Facebook are now defendants in a federal class-action lawsuit.Since the criticism, the company has cleaned up its act and removed all the offending ads, which it insists had been allotted their slots by third-party advertising networks, not by Zynga itself.
1380	There are some positive uses of the virtual goods economy, besides the simple pleasure it affords its users, and Zynga's founder is keen to emphasise its benevolent possibilities.
1381	Virtual goods account for over 90% of all revenue generated by the world's top social game developers.
1382	you will get either an in-game reward or Facebook credits for watching an advertisement.A brand or product will be injected in a game in some way.Due to the variety of ways in which product placement can be accomplished in any media, and because the category is nascent, this category is not standardized at all, but some examples include branded in-game goods or even in-game quests.
1383	Parallel worlds: The top online games World of Warcraft WoW is the mother of all MMORPGs (that's "massively multiplayer online role-playing games" to you and me), and more than 11.5 million players have been sucked into the Warcraft world since it was first launched in 2004.
1384	After choosing a character avatar to control, they wander through a fantasy world of trolls, orcs and assorted monsters, taking on quests and interacting with fellow players, often collaborating in order to complete said quests.
1385	Scrabulous is now known as Lexulous, with minor differences in gameplay  and far fewer users.Second Life The virtual world of Second Life is not, technically speaking, a game.
1386	The world has its own currency, the Linden Dollar, which is worth around 400 Linden to every 1.
1387	The virtual world was the creation of California entrepreneur Philip Rosedale, whose avatar within the game is known as Philip Linden.Pet Society Pet Society is the most successful game produced by Zynga's closest rival, Playfish.
1388	It gave us Roger Wilco, Sam & Max, and the world of Myst.
1389	With state-of-the-art visual and audio design, its creepy atmosphere, and expanded mechanics that encouraged exploration, Nintendo delivered a silent crawl through a hostile alien world that the industry has never quite gotten over.
1390	Who is your favourite video game character?<mct>This new Kratos was just as deadly and as physically able to carve a path through the world and its warriors as before, but now we actually cared about why he was doing it, and become utterly entangled in his relationship with his son Atreus.
1391	Just as in the real pet economy, the virtual one gives owners a vast array of products for their pet to choose from, be it a garden to run around in, or a Jacuzzi to bathe in.
1392	To gamers of a certain age, the mere names evoke an entire world of gaming, now largely lost.Graphic adventure games struggle to find success in today's market, but once upon a time they topped sales charts year after year.
1393	The graphic adventure was born, along with its most influential developer.It wasn't until 1983, though, that the genre received its first kick in the pants.
1394	And so was born the game that defined the genre, King's Quest: Quest for the Crown, along with the scripting language Adventure Game Interpreter (AGI), which formed the backbone of Sierra's adventure games until it was superseded in 1988.The PCjr tanked, but King's Quest took the computer gaming world by stormbeing ported and remade for several other platforms and rapidly rising to bestseller status.
1395	Dracula's son Alucard is its hero, exploring Daddy's castle and chasing villain Shaft but once he's defeated, the adventure continues in an inverted version of that same castle.
1396	Samus gained the ability to shoot in all directions and our sense of control over the adventure was further improved by the addition of the automap and inventory screen.
1397	Taking on the role of an anonymous traveler who ventures through a mysterious world, the movement of Thatgamecompany's adventure pulls you into a relaxing rhythm as you glide across sandy peaks and soar through ancient ruins.
1398	With its memorable, cinematic campaign, wondrously balanced weapons and vehicles, and an surprisingly-robust multiplayer offering, Master Chief's debut adventure was so incredible that it enshrined the Spartan, his series, its developer, and the platform that hosted it all as legend.Year: 1998 | Developer: Konami Stealth games existed before Metal Gear Solid, but the 1998 espionage adventure redefined the genre.
1399	Super Mario 64 is an inventive, wondrous adventure that redefined the way we play forever.Year: 2013 | Developer: Naughty Dog As if critical and commercial acclaim at launch wasn't impressive enough, The Last of Us has since been remastered, it's received a handful of equally impressive DLC add-ons, spawned a breathtaking sequel, and is the source material for an upcoming HBO television series.
1400	The genre shot to the top of computer gaming in the latter half of the 1980s, then suffered an equally precipitous fall a decade later.
1401	It shaped the fate of the largest companies in the gaming industry even as the games' crude color graphics served as the background for millions of childhood memories.
1402	But few gamers today know the complete history of the genre, or how the classic Sierra and LucasArts titles of the late 1980s and early 1990s largely disappeared beneath the assault of first-person shooters.Here's how we got from King's Quest to The Longest Journey and why it mattersand getting to the end of this particular story won't require the use of a text parser, demand that you combine two inscrutable inventory objects to solve a demented puzzle, or send you pixel-hunting across the screen.The origins of the graphic adventure lie, unsurprisingly, in text adventures.
1403	Mystery House was a painfully simple text adventure that offered one big selling point: monochrome line drawings which accompanied the text.
1404	A second title, Wizard and the Princess, followed shortly after and added color graphics.These simple illustrations were enough to bring the games to life; even though the text parser was primitive, you could lose yourself in the game world, and people did.
1405	Billed by some as an "interactive cartoon," King's Quest seemed to bring adventure gamesand the fairy tales they used for inspirationto life.King's Quest wasn't perfect, though, and it suffered from a logic and limited text parser.
1406	The issue of identifying the correct verblong a problem in all adventures, text or graphicwas now joined by the problem of identifying the correct noun (when is a "rock" a "stone," for instance?).
1407	Silicon Beach Software released Enchanted Scepters, the first point-and-click adventure game, in 1984, with drop-down menus for selecting player actions and a text description displayed in a separate window from the static graphics.
1408	It was the first computer game to support the 16 color EGA standard, and also the first to offer a pseudo-3D world in which players controlled a charactervia a third-person perspectivewho could move in front of, behind, or over other objects on the screen.
1409	Separate windows displayed the (largely static) visual scene, the available exits, a second-person narration, and a tiered inventory system in which some objects could be stored within other objects.
1410	You could drag and drop objects around the scene and into your inventory.
1411	The illusion of a 3D space projected onto a 2D plane was just that, an illusion; orienting protagonist Graham with respect to a staircase, bridge, or cliff edge proved unintuitive and, in a game of frequent deaths, dangerous.Sierra wasn't the only company advancing the fledgling genre.
1412	Often, double-clicking would act as a shortcut to either examine or open an object (whichever action seemed contextually more appropriate).Dj Vu was an instant classic, thanks in large part to its snappy writing and sharp humor.
1413	It would soon be ported to several platforms, finding the most success on the NES, where the interface received major streamlining to handle a lower resolution and controller input.
1414	Other games followed in the MacVenture series, including Shadowgate and Uninvited, but none matched the popularity or prestige of Sierra's Quest games.
1415	Two King's Quest sequels followed the first game, along with the first in a new Quest series, Space Quest, which added a comedic space opera to Sierra's repertoire.CNMN Collection WIRED Media Group  2024 Cond Nast.
1416	With Tenchu: Stealth Assassins, Thief: The Dark Project, Hitman, Splinter Cell, and Syphon Filter all landing in the space of a few years, the turn of the millennium was a renaissance period for stealth games, and, having directed the original Metal Gear and its sequel Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake a decade prior, Hideo Kojima was already a pioneer of the sneak 'em up.
1417	So popular was the follow-up to 1987's trailblazing Street Fighter, in fact, that between 1991 and 1994, Street Fighter 2 appeared in five different guises; with a regular edition, a Champion Edition, a Hyper Fighting variant, a Super addition, and a Super Turbo edition, all launched in the space of just three years.
1418	Front page layout Site theme Kyle Orland - Oct 15, 2013 9:30 pm UTC As far as multiplayer gaming on consoles is concerned, single-platform protectionism has been the de facto standard for years now.
1419	Hopefully, these recent statements by Nintendo and Microsoft are hints that such a will is thereor might be soonto tear down the barriers preventing platforms from playing together.Last edited by Xavin on Tue Oct 15, 2013 4:21 pm Last edited by Xavin on Tue Oct 15, 2013 4:21 pm CNMN Collection WIRED Media Group  2024 Cond Nast.
1420	Series like Call of Duty sell millions of nearly identical copies across the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and PC, yet players can only take part in online matches against others playing on the same platform.
1421	Now, console makers are showing encouraging signs of lowering these artificial walls and letting developers create games that cross between platforms more easily.The first chink in the armor came last week when Pure Chess developer Phil Gaskell told Eurogamer that Nintendo said it would have no problem with the game allowing cross-platform multiplayer between the Wii U and other consoles.
1422	"On Pure Chess we asked whether we could do cross-platform multiplayer, expecting it to be the typical closed console platform I've been used to working with for 20 years," Gaskell told the site.
1423	The games closed on April 25, 2014.
1424	This wasn't completely new territory for Nintendo.
1425	"Im not allowed to leak things, but I think what youre talking about makes a lot of sense," was the incredibly suggestive reply.This isn't completely new territory for Microsoft, either.
1426	Harrison's hints that more cross-platform play would make a lot of sense will come as encouraging words to PC gamers who would be happy to see Microsoft giving Windows gaming more significant support in the first place, especially in the wake of the shuttering of Games for Windows Live.Sony, for its part, has allowed for cross-platform play between PS3s and PCs with games like Square's Final Fantasy XIV and Valve's Portal 2.
1427	That minor tradition will continue on the PS4, where games like Warframe and War Thunder will connect up with the servers for the existing PC versions.
1428	And, of course, there are plenty of games that let Vita players play against those on Sony home consoles, and vice versa.This is all encouraging, especially for PC players, but it's still pretty far from the holy grail of game servers that don't differentiate between packets sent from any version of a game, on any console, computer or mobile platform.
1429	That's going to be a tough sell since locking other console makers out of cross-platform play makes a lot of business sense.
1430	After initially blaming its decision to ditch them on the Digital Markets Acts (DMA) requirement to support non-WebKit browsers, Apple now says European users will get them back when iOS 17.4 arrives early this month.Dune Part 2 was worth the wait -- and it'll literally kick your butt.This week, Adobe revealed an experimental audio AI tool to join its image-based ones in Photoshop.
1431	Described by the company as an early-stage generative AI music generation and editing tool, Adobes Project Music GenAI Control can create music from text prompts, which it can then fine-tune.Spotify is now offering a subscription tier just for audiobooks.
1432	Jeff Minter created the music visualization program Neon which is included with the Xbox 360.The Xbox 360 was released on November 22, 2005, in the United States and Canada; December 2, 2005, in Europe and December 10, 2005, in Japan.
1433	The console can also display pictures and perform slideshows of photo collections with various transition effects, and supports audio playback, with music player controls accessible through the Xbox 360 Guide button.
1434	It costs $10 per month and includes the same 15 hours of listening time as a Premium plan.Mark Zuckerbergs recent PR blitz is neither out of character nor a sign of a freshly rehabbed image.No matter how convoluted and expensive streaming video services become, Ill always think: At least its better than watching this thing over dial-up.This Saturday, on March 2, 2024, Engadget turns 20.
1435	To mark the occasion, our team has prepared almost 20 articles about the tech industry over the past two decades, the products that truly made an impact and how tech has changed our lives.The new Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max is on sale for a record low of $40.
1436	Thats a discount of $20 or 33 percent.This week's best tech deals include a PS5 bundle for $450, the Apple AirPods Pro for $189 and a bunch of discounts on Anker accessories.Elon Musk has sued OpenAI and co-founders Sam Altman and Greg Brockman.
1437	Bloomberg reported Thursday that a group of private investors will buy the studio in a deal worth roughly $500 million.Subscribe to our two newsletters:- A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget'sTerms andPrivacy Policy.
1438	He claims that OpenAI has betrayed its original mission as a non-profit endeavor by working on an artificial general intelligence to maximize profits for Microsoft."
1439	Intuit is shutting down its popular Mint app in March 2024.
1440	It's also searching for a production partner for future models.We chat about Engadget's editorial changes and a report about the Apple Car project shutting down.A good controller can level-up your entire Switch gaming experience.
1441	Engadget tested a bunch of popular alternatives.
1442	Here are our favorites.While its a bit pricey, the Razer Blade 14 delivers almost everything you could want in a portable gaming laptop.Fisker has announced it will lay off 15 percent of its workforce  about 200 people.
1443	These are the best Switch controllers you can buy right now.The biggest news stories this morning: Dell XPS 16 laptop review, The best DACs for Apple Music Lossless, UK government wants to use AI to cut civil service jobs.X has updated its abuse and harassment page in January, and it has added a new section that explains its new rule against intentionally using the wrong pronouns for a person or using a name they no longer go by.In early April, the Facebook News tab will start disappearing for users in the US and Australia.
1444	Meta will also stop paying Australian news organizations for their content, ending deals currently worth around $66 million.Saber Interactive has reportedly found an exit strategy from the death grip of its parent company, Embracer Group AB.
1445	Some of its podcasts include console-oriented shows like the PlayStation-focused "Podcast Beyond" and the Xbox-oriented "Podcast Unlocked", the Nintendo-oriented "Nintendo Voice Chat", and Game Scoop!, a podcast where a variety of editors discuss news and topics surrounding the video game industry.IGN has 28 editions in 25 languages, as of 2021.
1446	To others, its a more commercial distinction, of working without a publisher.
1447	To others, its ultimately about the work, with an indie game standing out more for being not the kind of thing you get from a commercial company, rather than really focusing on who made it.There are many definitions to play with, and few hard lines to draw.
1448	Whole genres were created from a single game, such as Football Manager in 1982.The speed of all this took many by surprise, with Balance of Power creator Chris Crawford saying in 1984, "We have pretty much passed the period where hobbyists could put together a game that would have commercial prospect.
1449	The first one would be free, and free to share, the other two commercial and only for registered purchasers to enjoy.
1450	where you run around a beautiful, varied planet, with the dull space adventure of its commercial sequel.
1451	The PC was typically seen as a business machine, with its commercial successes often adventures, RPGs and other slower and more cerebral offerings.
1452	When you wanted a deep, polished experience, you had the commercial game market.
1453	The poster-children of 90s shareware, id Software (who you may know courtesy of a little game called Doom), began working under contract for a company called Softdisk, cranking out games like Dangerous Dave in the Haunted Mansion, Hovertank 3D, and Catacomb 3D, before moving on to make games with/for shareware giant Apogee.In the very early days of gaming, just about everybody was indie to some extent.
1454	The beauty of the system was that anyone could distribute these games, with the rule being that while you werent allowed to sell the shareware version, you could charge for materials.
1455	In a few cases, registered shareware games even made the jump to boxed products in stores, though that was relatively rare.
1456	Either way, shareware was hardly a license to print money for most, but it supported many a developer throughout the '90s and made others their fortunes.
1457	Compare for instance the deservedly beloved shareware episode of Commander Keen: Goodbye, Galaxy!
1458	Not every game could be Wolfenstein 3D and promise a fight with Robot Hitler if you paid.Less cynically though, shareware gave many genres their home.
1459	In 1979 Richard Garriott set out on his path to buying a castle and going into space by selling copies of his first RPG, Akalabeth, in ziploc bags at his local computer store (one of those copies then ended up in the hands of California Pacific, who offered Garriott a publishing deal).
1460	Today, would-be indie developers have the tools to go head-to-head with even the biggest studios, albeit typically on a smaller scale, as well as explore more cost-effective options like pixel art and procedural 3D, while services like Kickstarter and Fig offer a way of seeking funding without immediately selling out.This also opened the definition of indie even further, with companies seriously able to consider going it alone, without a publisher.
1461	Gremlin Interactive began as a computer store called Just Micro, while DMA Design, originally Acme Software, which would make its name with Lemmings and much later become Grand Theft Auto creator Rockstar, began from its founders meeting up at a computer club in Dundee and ultimately signing with Psygnosis.
1462	The concept dates back to the 1970s, though it was popularized by PC-Write creator Bob Wallace in 1982.
1463	If they liked it, theyd then send the creator a check to unlock the full thing or get more of it.In the case of Apogee Software, and indeed what became known as the Apogee model, a game might have three parts.
1464	Not everyone could be Double Fine, raising $3.5 million for Broken Age, but many have had huge successesPillars of Eternity pulling just under $4 million, the Bards Tale getting $1.5 million and in the height of Kickstarter fever, even Leisure Suit Larry creator Al Lowe managing to raise $650,000 for a remake of the first game.Its at this point that the word 'indie' really catches on.
1465	The PC was largely left out of much of it, however, due to the relatively high cost of disks and its general perception of not being a gaming machine.
1466	We also saw more overtly indie friendly portals like itch.io, and the Humble Indie Bundle, offering new marketplaces and ways of selling gameseven if many later bundles proved a dead-end.Perhaps most excitingly, its now that we start to see whole genres and styles largely associated with the indie market either flourish or come into existence, not least the walking simulatorgames primarily about exploring a space and a story through environmental detail and voiceover.
1467	Classic point-and-click adventures also saw a resurgence outside of Germany, largely spearheaded by the Adventure Game Studio creation engine and the success of Wadjet Eye Games The Blackwell Legacy, Gemini Rue, Technobabylon, and Unavowed.But its of course reductive to pick specific genres.
1468	An indie title buffeted with word of mouth can sell millions, but far more are doomed to languish largely unplayed and discussed in the depths of Steams increasing piles or other services far less traveled shelves.
1469	They were cheap, sometimes cheerful, and allowed for endearing weirdness like 1985s Dont Buy Thisa compilation of the five worst games sent to publisher Firebird.It would be many years before most indie PC games could get that kind of placement.
1470	When Valve was a lot pickier, and being backed by a publisher was a distinct advantage to getting onto the system, any developer who managed to get onto Steam effectively received a license to print money.
1471	The joy of indie games is that as long as the money can be raised somehow, a passionate team can take on more or less whatever they like, free of publisher interference or perceived wisdom, allowing for arty games like Limbo and Bastion (distributed by Warner Bros, but only as a publishing partner), throwbacks to lost genres like Legend of Grimrock, exploratory pieces like The Stanley Parable and The Beginners Guide, or completely new concepts like Superhot, where time only moves when you do, and the ferociously complex Kerbal Space Program, where difficulty really is a matter of rocket science.The downside is that as ever, its not enough to simply make a game.
1472	(Not that anyone really listened, as the vast, vast numbers of pirated copies of Doom probably shows better than anything.)
1473	The original Commander Keen, while simplistic to modern eyes, was proof that the PC could do console-style scrolling, even if it wouldnt be until 1994s Jazz Jackrabbit that anyone could seriously claim to be doing convincing 16-bit console-style arcade action and visuals.
1474	While there were engines available, they were mostly poor quality, with nothing like Unity on the market and the likes of Quake and Unreal costing far too much for anyone but other companies to license.If you wanted to play with that kind of technology, you were looking at making mods instead.
1475	Whole companies were set up to sell just the trial versions, sending out printed catalogues of their stock and charging by the disk.By the mid-90s of course the popularity of CD had rendered this relatively pointless, with 1000 Games!
1476	Duke Nukem began as a very simple 2D side-scroller, notable mostly for oddities like the main character wearing pink and just wanting to save the world so that he could get back to watching Oprah, but nevertheless blossomed into Duke Nukem 3D before publicly wilting into Duke Nukem Forever.And there were many more stars too, regularly appearing in new games or simply popular ones that kept showing up, like Skunny the squirrel and his awful platforming (and ultimately karting adventures), Last Half of Darkness, and Hugos House of Horrors, much beloved by magazine and compilation editors for its extremely pretty first screen, and never mind that it was all made of clip art and every other room in the game was barely MS Paint-level scribbles.Shareware's big draw for players was, inevitably, free games.
1477	However, it was the first major attempt that nailed the details, like being able to download your games on any computer you owned rather than having them locked to just one, and being able to do so perpetually, rather than simply for a year, as was the case with most of the competition.The results spoke for themselves.
1478	The downside of the Apogee model and others that erred on the generous side was that a whole episode was often enoughespecially as thats where the developers best work tended to be.
1479	There were platformers and beat-em-ups and similar, but they were usually poor conversions from other platforms at best, with few worth taking a risk on.Shareware removed that risk factor for customers, while letting developers show off.
1480	Its impossible to predict what game will be the next Spelunky, the next Minecraft, the next Undertale, or the next Super Meat Boy, but absolutely no risk at all to bet that whatever it is, its already on its way.Sign up to get the best content of the week, and great gaming deals, as picked by the editors.The best survival games on PC Square Enix won't let us play Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth on PC yet, so my consolation prize is finally playing Final Fantasy 15 Life is Strange: True Colours developer becomes the 3rd studio this week to suffer layoffs By Tyler ColpFebruary 26, 2024 By Harvey RandallFebruary 26, 2024 By Kerry BrunskillFebruary 26, 2024 By Andy EdserFebruary 26, 2024 By Jacob RidleyFebruary 26, 2024 By Shaun PrescottFebruary 26, 2024 By Tyler Colp, Ted LitchfieldFebruary 24, 2024 By Fraser BrownFebruary 23, 2024 By Nick EvansonFebruary 23, 2024 By Tyler ColpFebruary 23, 2024 By Wes FenlonFebruary 23, 2024 PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
1481	Farther afield, though games not on Steam were at a distinct disadvantage, the legitimisation of digital distribution as a concept certainly raised most boats.And with all this came something just as important: the indie game ecosystem.
1482	The first big name here was Dear Esther, a free mod released in 2008 and later remade in 2012, with later examples including Gone Home, Firewatch, and Everyones Gone To The Rapture.Theres also the pixel-art aesthetic of games like VVVVVV, Super Meat Boy, and the original Spelunky, and for many old-school gamers, a return to brutal old-school difficulty.
1483	Glenn Gaslin is a contributor to EW Internet The videogame-console war that currently pits Nintendos GameCube against Microsofts Xbox and Sonys PlayStation 2 just got a little more fierce.
1484	Joining the fray are some battle-tested old-timers, including Atari, ColecoVision, Intellivision  and just about every bit-mappy, low-res game-box from the 70s and 80s.
1485	The Net now hosts a vast grassroots revival in vintage systems, with their block graphics and gloriously cheesy 2-D games.
1486	Well, for one, 21st-century consoles may render movielike graphics, but they also recycle proven formulas ad infinitum  Tony Hawk or Star Wars, anyone?
1487	Steering clear of the few pitfalls, we explored the Web of retro gaming:ATARI AGE (atariage.com) This site dishes daily on decades-dead Atari consoles, from the once-omnipresent 2600 to the more recent Jaguar.
1488	Beyond collecting and playing cartridges, fans write and post hacks to update them (one, called Kabul!, turns the mad bomber from the 80s cartridge Kaboom!
1489	And just last year, this site uncovered what may be The Story of 2001 (well, for Atari freaks): a playable version of a never-released, long-rumored 1983 cartridge based on The Lord of the Rings.
1490	At the June 1991 Consumer Electronics Show, Sony announced its SNES-compatible console based on cartridge and CD, the PlayStation.
1491	The standalone unit has the following connectors: two Super NES controller ports, a cartridge slot, a dual-speed CD-ROM drive, RCA composite jacks, S-Video, RFU DC OUT (similar to the PlayStation SCPH-1001), a proprietary multi-out AV output port (the same one featured on the Super NES, Nintendo 64, and GameCube), headphone jack on the front, a serial port labelled "NEXT" (probably for debugging), and one expansion port under the unit.
1492	The main game in development for the SNES-CD platform launch was Square's Secret of Mana, whose planned content was cut down to the size suitable for cartridge and released on that medium instead.A tentative reconciliation in late 1992 gave better terms to Nintendo for game royalties while allowing Sony royalties for all other software and the rights to produce SNES-compatible hardware, such as the PlayStation.
1493	into Osama bin Laden).
1494	A CLASSIC GAMING A packed, slick hub for whats most important in old games: playing the things.
1495	Name a defunct console  Vectrex, Intellivision, Odyssey 2  and you can boot up the original games on your home computer using one of the emulators collected here.
1496	Youre not getting the experience of playing the things in the arcade, with your friends, he says, and for a lot of people, thats where the memory is.
1497	Giant machines that play tennis!
1498	The strange history of Pong, considered by many to be the worlds first videogame, is told on this overly comprehensive site, complete with stacks of technical data and photos.
1499	From its beginnings as a 60s government-lab contract to its 70s home-system sensation, the story even includes some big-dollar maneuvering between electronics giants Magnavox and Atari.
1500	While this site cant definitively tell you who invented the first videogame, theres enough detail, including a how-to page on building your own Pong-box, to tear you away from your PS2 for, oh, five or six whole minutes.
1501	Heres how it works.GamesRadar+ joins forces with the Golden Joystick Awards to present the best video games of all time What are the best games of all time?
1502	The result is a list of the 50 best video games that spans eras and genres; a selection that respects the games that defined the past and those that we believe will be consequential to the industry's future.There's always a degree of subjective interpretation with these sorts of endeavors, so that's why we opened up the process.
1503	We took care to include just one game from each series, with exceptions made for those that have significantly pushed beyond the boundaries of 2D or 3D  thanks for making things more complicated than they needed to be, Nintendo.Keep on scrolling for our consideration of the 50 best games of all time.Release: 2020 | Developer: Nintendo Animal Crossing: New Horizons became a true cultural phenomenon in 2020.
1504	If the scenery didn't do it for you, there were still the 750 licensed cars to obsess over, the chance to create customized routes, and a bumper pack of content after release that included treasure hunting challenges and the ability to race in Lego cars.Simply put, Forza Horizon 4 is a truly stunning racing game.Release: 2020 | Developer: Supergiant Games Slick, stylish, and rewarding, Hades is easily one of the very best roguelikes in recent memory.
1505	Packed full of personality and finesse, Hades is a godly example of its genre in every sense of the word.Release: 2017 | Developer: Bungie Released four years ago, Destiny 2 is still delivering new chapters of space fantasy adventures and arguments over the best loot.
1506	Trap 30 Zelda fans in a room and ask them to decide what the best of the lot is.
1507	It is, after all, the best of the 2D Zelda games.Year: 2016 | Developer: Arkane Studios Dishonored 2 is everything a sequel should be.
1508	Clockwork Mansion is not only one of the best levels in the Dishonored series, but one of the most innovative levels in the history of video games.Release: 2011 | Developer: Visceral Games Dead Space 2 is the perfect example of a sequel done right.
1509	Its influence is vast, pushing beyond the boundaries of video game discourse to impact the broader pantheon of popular culture.
1510	But, some 16 years later, the impact it's had on horror games, and video games across the board, cannot be understated.
1511	Building on the legacy of the Elder Scrolls series, Skyrim's vast sense of scale in every sense has continued to impact games in the RPG genre that followed.
1512	SimCity was educational, open-ended, and impossible to walk away from.Year: 1978 | Developer: Taito Space Invaders may look crude by today's standards, but the impact that Tomohiro Nishikado's shoot 'em up had on the landscape of video games from the late 1970s onwards cannot be overstated.
1513	That tells you all you need to know about the impact of Naughty Dog's groundbreaking zombie action-adventure game of 2013, which explores the plight of protagonists Joel and Ellie in their journey through the post-apocalypse.
1514	Hugely critical and commercially successful, Half-Life 2 shares the Metacritic top spot (96/100) with its series forerunner Half-Life and GTA 5.Release: 2017 | Developer: Nintendo EPD Even now, just a few short years after the release of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, the impact of Link's debut adventure on Nintendo Switch is difficult to quantify.
1515	With an upgraded look for a new generation and a host of fresh features, New Horizons drew in newcomers and long-time players alike and became the second best-selling Switch game of all time.
1516	From the Cleric Beast to Father Gascoine, Vicar Amelia and the One Reborn, Bloodborne's tormented abominations underline what makes this PS4 exclusive so special.Year: 2016 | Developer: Playdead After its debut venture Limbo  a gorgeous monochromatic puzzle game  was received well by players and critics alike in 2010, Playdead's follow-up, Inside, arrived six years later with a level of expectation not normally levied at independent studios.
1517	With an impressive 34 million copies sold since launch, the triumphant return of Nintendo's long-running series will be talked about for years to come.Release: 2018 | Developer: Ubisoft Assassin's Creed Odyssey built on the RPG elements introduced in Assassin's Creed Origins to deliver a boundless adventure in Ancient Greece.
1518	Along with romance, a wealth of side quests, dialogue responses, and a host of memorable characters, Assassin's Creeds Odyssey really brought the series forward in an exciting direction.Year: 2012 | Developer: Polytron Corporation At first glance, Fez's squeaky-clean, pixelated aesthetic is a love letter to the classic platformers which defined the 8-bit and 16-bit eras.
1519	Fortnite is a fight to survive, it's a playground, and it's a social space  but perhaps most importantly, it's a forum for creative thinking and action.Release: 2012 | Developer: Atlus Set in the rural town of Inaba, Japan, Persona 4 Golden explores a coming of age story of a group of high school students who find themselves investigating a series of murders.
1520	While it does explore some darker elements, the adventure in Inba is full of humor, great combat, and a cast of memorable characters you won't soon forget.Release: 1997 | Developer: Konami In a series with a multitude of games, rereleases, and ports, Castlevania: Symphony of the Night stands out as a major milestone for the spooky series.
1521	Inspired by The Legend of Zelda, the developers leaned into explorations and RPG elements the series had only flirted with in the past.
1522	As a highly replayable and in-depth RPG with satisfying strategy mechanics, ample character development, and meaningful choices, Fire Emblem: Three Houses showcases the series at its very best.Year: 2009 | Developer: Rocksteady Studios The superhero game which redefined superhero games.
1523	Narrative-wise, Rocksteady was able to capture the bleak and twisted side of its protagonist and antagonists alike with aplomb, and the asylum itself is often as scary as the villains who lurk within its shadowy halls.Release: 2014 | Developer: PlatinumGames An amnesiac witch who uses her hair as a weapon against angels and demons is definitely up there as far as game pitches go, but somehow the Bayonetta series just makes it work.
1524	ConcernedApe may have set out to put their own distinct stamp on the farming sim formula of series Harvest Moon, but the dev ended up changing it forever.
1525	With its spin on the tried and tested battle royale formula, where building and construction mechanics were added to the bouts of 100-player, PvP, Fortnite quickly took on a life of its own with over 350 million accounts registered.
1526	Supergiant delivers a beautifully polished dungeon crawler with smooth hack-and-slash mechanics that keep you eagerly wanting to return to try and escape the underworld.
1527	How is matel gear solid?<mct>Metal Gear Solid was, however, a watershed moment for the Japanese auteur's career, the stealth genre as a whole, and video games in general, as it weaved a rich tapestry of unforgettable Bond-esque villains, action hero movie-inspired plotlines, and revolutionary game mechanics over two discs on the original PlayStation.Year: 1996 | Developer: Nintendo EAD It might be difficult to imagine it now, but there was a point in time where many developers and players alike believed that the 2D experiences we had spent decades enjoying couldn't be replicated in 3D spaces.
1528	A good story game to play on my old pc?<mct>A good story game for pc?<mct>Far Cry 3 Leaving Far Cry 2s open-ended narrative and survival-lite mechanics behind, it embraced fast-paced gunplay, challenging enemies and well-designed environments.
1529	It was all expertly delivered, and buoyed by incredible music, visuals, enemy AI and stealth mechanics that rival todays best.
1530	It had its origin in Demon's Souls and the Dark Souls series by FromSoftware, the themes and mechanics of which directly inspired several other games.
1531	It's telling that, almost 25 years on from its original release on PlayStation, Symphony of the Night's influence on the industry has yet to diminish.Release: 2018 | Developer: Playground Games Forza Horizon 4 deserves special mention not only for introducing changing seasons to the Xbox racing series, but for providing a valuable service to the British tourist board.
1532	Originally released for the Wii U, the game won over a whole new generation of Nintendo fans with a Nintendo Switch release in 2018.
1533	Mojang's breakout independent release turned billion-dollar cultural phenomenon has shaped the way that we play today.
1534	David Gordon and his team of experts round up the classic games that allow you to do battle with demons, race with rally champions or cosset cuddly crocodiles - all at the touch of a button The Experts This week's 50 Best panel comprised Ed Lomas, a senior writer at Computer and Video Games magazine; Dave Perry, who starred in Channel 4's Games Master and now works at Rapide Publishing; Jon Evans, the editor of Ultimate PC magazine; Joao Sanches, the reviews editor of Edge magazine; and the entire cast of Kuju Entertainment - Simon Carless, Gabriella Diffley, Dave Millard, Colin Chung, Chris Roberts - a computer-games company whose next production, Tank Racer, should be in the shops by March.1 HALF-LIFE Proof that hype means nothing comes in the form of Half-Life, an unheralded 3D shoot-'em-up that stole the show on its release thanks to a combination of amazing graphics, endless gameplay and 32-person multiplayer option.
1535	Price: pounds 19.99.10 FINAL FANTASY VII After considerable hype, and having been lapped up in Japan for almost a year, the release of Final Fantasy over here was by no means a disappointment.
1536	Price: pounds 39.99.11 GOLDENEYE Almost a year into the release of the N64, gamers everywhere were desperate for a great game, and just when it looked like their prayers would go unanswered, along came GoldenEye, based on the eponymous James Bond movie.
1537	Its instant playability ensured that, from the NES to the N64, every release of Super Mario World has been a bestseller.
1538	Price: pounds 19.99.16 QUAKE It seemed as though the Doom (see No 31) era would never end, but the release of Quake rejuvenated the genre.
1539	At the heart of Hades, though, is Zagreus and a cast of loveable accompanying characters plucked from Greek mythology who are all brilliantly brought to life in a signature art style.
1540	At this point, the game has enough lore to choke a librarian and an ensemble cast of incredible characters like Savathn, sister of Oryx, and fan-favorite Eris Morn, and is somehow delivering some of the most exciting storytelling in online gaming.
1541	With a cast of characters that have cemented their way into popular culture, Square Enix delivered an experience that's legacy will live on for a long time to come.Year: 2018 | Developer: Rockstar Studios Red Dead Redemption 2 is as epic as video games come.
1542	With refined combat, stellar character-driven storytelling, and choices that carry life and death consequences for the characters around you, Mass Effect 2 succeeded at taking the series to new starry heights in a way that few sequels do, and it's arguably become the quintessential space-faring RPG.Release: 2018 | Developer: Sony Santa Monica After Mariah Carey, it's hard to imagine a more impressive comeback than the one Kratos was able to pull off in the 2018 reimagining of God of War.
1543	We take it for granted now, but Marvel vs. Capcom 2 cemented the Capcom vs series playstyle, with characters from different franchises swapping out and using assist attacks.
1544	It helps that each of the characters you can control has a completely different combat style, giving you another excuse to jump back in for a final attempt.
1545	Over 100 characters to recruit, a base to build up, minigames to complete, battles to fight, duels to win, and even a strategy game layer where you command entire armies.
1546	Cinematic, great performances, characters you care about, and terrifying mushroom men  what more could you ask for?
1547	When it comes to its gameplay, Bungie keeps its Guardians loyal with its ever-evolving epic story, weekly updates directly to the community, and events like raids that demand more than just shooting skills to complete.Release: 2019 | Developer: Intelligent Systems Intelligent Systems masterfully brought the long-running tactical strategy RPG to a new generation on the Switch.
1548	Often billed as one of the most punishing games you'll ever play, FromSoftware's indirect follow-up to 2009's Demon's Souls is hardly a walk in the park, but, scratch beneath its difficulty, and discover a wonderful, open-lored and expertly-designed fantasy role-player, with larger than life enemies, mysterious NPCs, and epic boss battles that will leave the words 'YOU DIED' etched into your mind via the tip of a Dragonslayer Spear.
1549	Each house has a select group of students who all have their own unique personalities and combat styles, and it's up to you to guide them on the battlefield.
1550	Bayonetta 2 struck a fine balance between accessibility and depth, and it remains a masterclass in cinematic combat design to this day.Year: 2015 | Developer: FromSoftware FromSoftware's first pivot away from its Souls series, Bloodborne gave us yet more action-RPG fare, this time with a Lovecraftian twist.
1551	While adopting faster combat mechanics to great effect, the result is horrifyingly brilliant and exceedingly punishing, as per the devs' reputation, set within a decaying world where blood itself is the setting of Yharnam's main currency.
1552	Its impressive sense of world-building, classic turn-based combat formula, and in-depth story work together to create one very engrossing JRPG.
1553	The clever track design, slick implementation of simple combat into its high-speed races, and the addition of an irresistible suite of same-couch multiplayer modes helped enshrine Super Mario Kart as legend.Year: 1980 | Developer: Bandai Namco Few video games have transcended the medium and spilled into the world of pop culture like Pac-Man.
1554	Few have come close in the intervening years, which is testament to the game's tight combat mechanics, astute puzzle set-pieces, and engrossing storytelling  all of which were carried into episodic sequels, Episode One and Episode Two.
1555	Heralded for its freeform approach to problem solving and its wondrous open world, remembered for its challenging combat and sharp storytelling, Breath of the Wild is a masterpiece.
1556	Missions no longer fail when triggering alarms; an aural monitor indicates Sams noise relative to his environments; and enemy AI reacts more naturally to threats.The choice of different kits to emphasize specific play styles, a combat knife for CQC and improvised interrogation, and multiple new attachments, weapons and grenades have also been added, enhancing the experience further.
1557	While its predecessors hardly shy from challenge, Bloodborne enforces a new level of vulnerability on its players by removing shields entirely, placing a new onus on parry mechanics, and pitting them against some of the most terrifying and twisted bosses to grace the face of video games.
1558	A meme-generator in a pre-meme world, Portal's antagonist GLaDOS is as charismatic, twisted and memorable as video game antagonists come, and the Weighted Companion Cube  a recurring object emblazoned with a love heart used to overcome specific puzzles  is, somehow, one of the most endearing video game allies of all time.
1559	It's responsible for taking the FPS mainstream, for delivering intensive action and an arsenal of finely-tuned weapons that still holds up today, and, perhaps most importantly, for making video games "cool".Year: 2011 | Developer: FromSoftware From cult classic, to sleeping giant, to one of the most influential action-RPGs of a generation, Dark Souls' path to mainstream recognition was as twisted as the beasts lurking in Demon Ruins.
1560	Puzzle games have come on leaps and bounds in the last decade, but few leave such a lasting impression as Inside.Release: 2005 | Developer: Team Ico Shadow of the Colossus is one of those rare games that transcends the usual confines of the medium, so much so that it should probably be on show in museums as a masterpiece.
1561	The story seems simple enough, a young hero trying to save a damsel in distress by fighting gigantic monsters, but everything from the visual style to the emotional beats of the story ultimately come together to leave scars on your soul.
1562	Here's what's come before; and here's where we're taking you now.
1563	As thoughtful as it is moving, with a wonderfully stylized world that entirely draws you in, Journey really is a rarity among games that everyone should experience.Release: 2015 | Developer: CD Projekt Red Has any game ever come as close to perfecting the fantasy RPG formula as The Witcher 3?
1564	That might sound like a no-brainer, but if you're to have any sort of chance of overcoming the Little Sisters' hulking, near-impenetrable Big Daddy minders, the power these little 'uns yield once consumed could come in handy.
1565	First-person shooters don't come much more thought-provoking than BioShock, and few have come as close since.Release: 2011 | Developer: Bethesda The expansive open-world of Skyrim offered up a sprawling adventure with an impressive level of freedom to shape your journey as the Dragonborn.
1566	While you may come for the survival experience, you'll stay for the endless creativity that the construction sandbox is able to contain.
1567	You can still see the game's influence in titles released today, anytime you have to scale a huge enemy like they're a jungle gym  that's the Colossus effect.Release: 1991 | Developer: Nintendo Want to see a fight?
1568	It's one of those rare releases whose influence is so vast that it has quietly seeped into the fabric of the entire video game industry, the results of which are being teased out now and won't be fully realised for years to come.
1569	Everything Dishonored did well, Dishonored 2 just does it better  its intricate world-building, multi-tier mission structure, inventive skill combinations, and array of intelligent puzzles.
1570	Throughout, there's a real sense that the city of Karnaca is a living, breathing beast which exists independently of the player's actions  be that in full stealth mode without killing a single enemy, or high chaos while offing as many foes as possible.
1571	BioWare killed off Shepard in the opening minutes of the iconic protagonist's return and gave the series a rebirth in a figurative and literal sense from that moment on.
1572	The boundless energy and ingenuity of Modern Warfare's single-player campaign is still unrivalled in this space, while the introduction of the Killstreak and levelling systems, weapon customisation, and Prestige mode would bring a new-found sense of progression and retention to multiplayer gaming that has impacted generations of games and players alike.
1573	The sequel was also when it felt like Naughty Dog nailed the cinematic style that has become its trademark , with massive set pieces and smaller moments of emotional punches working together seamlessly.
1574	Drawing on the rich, fantasy novels of Andrzej Sapkowski, the game put us in the shoes of the surly monster mercenary and then set us free in a land of epic quests, complicated characters, and moral ambiguities.
1575	Wells' alien invasion science fiction novel, Space Invaders was the first fixed shooter game that not only set the template for countless shoot 'em ups in its wake, but also marked the beginning of the so-called 'golden era of arcade games'.
1576	Over 40 years later, the influence of Pac-Man can not be overstated, nor can the undeniable simplicity, challenge, and replayability that lies at the heart of his debut outing.Release: 2007 | Developer: Infinity Ward Much like Doom and Halo: Combat Evolved before it, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare set a new standard for the first person shooter and changed the dynamics of competitive multiplayer.
1577	Halo: Combat Evolved established the framework that console-bound first-person shooters would follow for years to come, with its impossibly tight mechanical design and reactive artificial intelligence helping to set a new benchmark for the genre.
1578	Whether you were shooting off guns and one-liners, scaling the walls of a ruined temple, or fleeing from the monstrous guardians of the fabled city of Shambhala, Uncharted 2: Among Thieves looked incredible and was one of those rare occasions where the execution was just as impressive as the image.Release: 1997 | Developer: Square Enix Final Fantasy 7 was one of the most influential JRPGs to land on the PlayStation, with 3D graphics that showcased just what the CD-ROM could do.
1579	A whole generation of players were introduced to the RPG through Cloud and his iconic Buster sword, and all these years later, it's impact is still very much being talked about today  thanks in part to the release of Final Fantasy 7 Remake.
1580	In the absence of single player DLC, much of GTA 5's popularity today is driven by its online offshoot, GTA Online, which invites enterprising players to build virtual criminal empires from scratch  with gunrunning, drug manufacturing, nightclub ownership, and casino heisting among some of the more exotic activities offered within the game's dozens of complimentary updates.
1581	For the rest of you out there, you're feeling the impact and influence of this legendary NES side-scrolling platformer in so many of the games you play today without even realising it.
1582	The enduring success of Tetris has seen it become the most ported game of all time, while the Game Boy's take on Russian folk song 'Korobeiniki' is today one of the most recognisable video game theme tunes ever composed.Year: 1991 | Developer: Capcom The quintessential fighting game that's inspired just about every beat 'em to grace a console, PC or arcade cabinet over the last three decades.
1583	Today, Street Fighter is the highest-grossing fighting game media franchise in existence, Street Fighter 2 is the best-selling title among a whopping 37 main series games, spin-offs and crossovers, and Ryu and Ken are among the most recognisable video game characters of all time.Year: 2011 | Developer: Mojang It's impossible to imagine what the video game industry would look like today without Minecraft.
1584	Tears and blood were shed, in no small part thanks to the incredible performances given to the lead roles by Christoper Judge and Sunny Suljic.Year: 2005 | Developer: Capcom In 2005, Resident Evil 4's tweaks to the familiar survival horror formula seemed subtle.
1585	The same gameplay fundamentals apply, but Super Mario Galaxy 2 takes the established formula and offers more variety with its galaxies and power-ups, better pacing, the addition of Yoshi, and many more challenges to put veterans to the test.
1586	While some parts were trimmed or cut, much was faithful to the original, expertly enhanced to highlight how masterfully executed the survival horror formula could be.
1587	Grand Theft Auto 5 Rockstar Games had a perfect formula for its Grand Theft Auto franchise for years.
1588	With Grand Theft Auto 5, it seemingly pulled off the impossible, evolving its formula in numerous ways while advancing the genre.Its not just that GTA 5 was a triumph narratively with its three playable characters (all switchable at pretty much anytime).
1589	At times, Firewatch threatens to morph into another game entirely  using the paranoia of the protagonists isolation and the expectations of the audience to create a kind of simmering dread  but to say more would spoil the experience.Hideki Kamiyas accidental masterpiece, Devil May Cry, practically invented the character action genre, and Devil May Cry 3 was when the formula was finally perfected.
1590	If you are ever in the mood to see why Kirby became such an enduring series, this game will give you the crib notes.It takes guts to mess with a series formula youve established over decades, but Capcom proved that it can pay off with Resident Evil 7.
1591	It found a formula that worked and stuck with it for years  to the point of becoming stale  before suddenly exploding into a fully-fledged RPG series out of nowhere.
1592	Because not only does Irrational Games' spiritual successor to the wonderful System Shock 2 have us exploring the crumbling underwater world of Rapture, taking on its unhinged and hostile inhabitants, and injecting ourselves with copious amounts of DNA-altering drugs; it also forces us to choose whether or not we want to harvest the souls of innocent children.
1593	Soulslike games usually have means to permanently improve the player character's abilities as to be able to progress further, often by a type of currency that can be earned and spent, but may be lost or abandoned between deaths if not appropriately managed, similar to the souls in the Souls series.
1594	Marking the veil between life and death, they give protection against invading souls of the dead, and offer the player a fraught opportunity for redemption.
1595	10 years since release, so many games owe their existence to Dark Souls, and, thanks to its 2011 hit, developer FromSoftware is now a household name.For more on FromSoftware's action-RPG masterpiece: Why Dark Souls has been crowned the best game of all time.For more, check out our rankings of the 20 best video game consoles and hardware of all time and the 50 best game characters of all time.Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more Josh West is the UK Managing Editor of GamesRadar+.
1596	Playdom was an online social network game developer popular on Facebook, Google+ and Myspace.
1597	What do you think abou the older video games?<mct>Old video games?<mct>Older games continue to influence while still being incredible in their own right.
1598	Music in video games?<mct>Of course, having a soundtrack that was incredible enough to win the Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences Outstanding Achievement in Licensed Soundtrack awards isnt too bad either.29.
1599	It easily exceeded expectations, delivering an incredible futuristic narrative that mixed spy agencies and alien conspiracies with awesome sci-fi weapons and stellar mission design.
1600	Forza Horizon 5 still managed, restructuring its campaign and driving disciplines into unique Festival Sites with their own stories, steps and rewards.Mexico was an incredible choice for a map, thanks to its sheer range of biomes and weather conditions, including brand-new dust storms.
1601	Fill the world with an incredible range of activities, from platforming and puzzle solving to hunts and tabletop games.
1602	Having all this with an incredible orchestral score and gorgeous visuals also didnt hurt.
1603	However, unlike Metroid Prime Remastered, Dead Space isnt content to deliver incredible visuals, teeming with extensive detail and upgrades to effects, lighting and shadows.
1604	It builds on the mythos of the original with side quests and an expanded narrative, incorporates new mechanics like the Intensity Director and Peeling System to enhance the gameplay, and even has a brand new, alternate ending that makes us question whats next for the franchise.All of this, on top of the same incredible gameplay, bosses, levels and set-pieces that made the original so great.
1605	Its arcade-style gameplay wasnt just chaos for the sake of it  the takedowns and high-speed gameplay were skill-based, encouraging players to wreck their opponents, keep the Boost meter going, and not get wrecked in return.Supporting this stellar gameplay loop is World Tour mode, with 173 events across various worldwide locations and modes and multiplayer, including split-screen support.
1606	However, Epic Games breakout shooter offered so much more  stellar cover-based shooting, the Active Reload for more involved combat, and a uniquely post-apocalyptic future for humanity which mixed ruin and beauty.
1607	Many side quests felt like standalone stories in their own right, with stellar writing and characterization.
1608	Perfect Dark (N64) Though not a direct sequel to GoldenEye 007, the similarities between both shooters were enough to make fans eagerly anticipate Rares next hit.
1609	Super Mario Galaxy 2 Its insane to think that Nintendo not only released Super Mario Galaxy, one of the best games of all time, but then released its sequel three years later, which is also excellent, and superior in many ways.
1610	In sequel terms, it went above and beyond the original, as Nathan Drake traversed the globe, following the trail of Marco Polo.
1611	And as impressive as the visuals were, especially on the Nintendo 64, the soundtrack mixed with synth-wave, techno and futuristic beats with stellar orchestration for a superb experience.
1612	In this day and age, Metroid Prime Remastered is a reminder of the series merits and how good the original game is.The enhanced visuals and environmental details are almost on the level of a remake, even if the core game is still fundamentally the same.
1613	Suggest me a racing game?<mct>Forza Horizon 5 Its hard to replicate a streak like Playground Games, with three back-to-back open-world racing hits that pushed the envelope in photo-realism and sheer breadth of content.
1614	Just exploring the sheer variety of environments feels natural and fun.
1615	Resident Evil 2 (2019) The fact that the announcement video for Resident Evil 2 Remake was in 2015 and the title was finally released in 2019 is a testament to the sheer dedication of its team to the fans.And what a remake it turned out to be, reimagining that one bad night in Raccoon City with an over-the-shoulder camera and aiming, a revamped Mr X, stunning visuals courtesy of RE Engine and improved pacing.
1616	God of War Ragnarok After all the years of hype, speculation and sheer excitement, God of War Ragnarok couldnt possibly live up to it all.
1617	The sheer amount of extraordinary content, to say nothing of the stellar main quest was enough to excuse some of the combat hiccups and bugs.6.
1618	Or that the new heists were enjoyable, the gunplay amazing, or the sheer amount of quality content was overwhelming.
1619	The sheer breadth of content and mystery.
1620	It added to the series penchant for open-world tomfoolery, which felt more rewarding thanks to the Accolades.
1621	Furthermore, the Freeflow combat felt even smoother and more responsive and remains a rollicking good time even by todays standards.8.
1622	The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt When most open-world games felt akin to clearing checklists, The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt arrived and injected soul into its world.
1623	The world also encouraged exploration and discovery, with several activities to eat up all your time.Even if you werent an aficionado of open-world games, it felt fun to look for Witcher gear and learn the fate of different Witchers, hang out with Lambert on a quest, or take down various horrors in contracts.
1624	It felt liberating playing a huge RPG that rewards cheating the system, and encountering NPCs and opponents that acknowledge and react to it.
1625	It just felt so insanely intuitive, it had great music, it just felt cool?
1626	For players new to the game, this was a meticulously crafted survival horror experience that felt completely in step with the genre in 2019, while veterans got to enjoy a lovingly crafted piece of nostalgia that vitally, felt like the game they remembered from 1998.
1627	But it's really the finely tuned racing of Nintendo's longstanding franchise that takes the spotlight  it's never felt better to race (even in the face of Blue Shells), while courses are beautiful, wonderfully detailed, and represent some of the best of the franchise both new and old.He may not be officially recognized by the new Star Wars canon, but theres no Jedi Id rather have in my corner than Kyle Katarn.
1628	It tells an emotional new story, improving the pacing with autosaves while adding to combat thanks to the new Shard system.
1629	Such well-crafted pacing and production values would have fit right at home with the best of Hollywood  the fact that Naughty Dog was doing all this in 2009 on the PlayStation 3 feels insane.12.
1630	In terms of presentation, the games atmosphere and use of fog are unmatched, lending well to the pacing without bogging down the fidelity.The creature designs remain iconic, whether its Pyramid Head representing James guilty and sexual frustration or Angelas trauma manifesting as the Abstract Daddy.
1631	It can seem daunting at first, but the difficulty is also well-crafted, and the fact that the controls are so responsive and the soundtrack so endearing makes it all the more enjoyable to try and try again.
1632	The game's soundtrack lineup was unveiled on July 28 of the same year.The game engine of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 is an enhanced version of that of its predecessor, which in turn used a modified version of the engine used in Neversoft's earlier title Pro Skater 2 is the first installment in the series to feature a level editor, character customization and manuals; the latter was intended to be included in the previous game, but was not implemented due to time constraints.On September 19, 2000, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 made its premiere the day before its wide release at the Best Buy in West Los Angeles.
1633	While the game's textures and frame rate are smoother than that of the PlayStation version, the soundtrack had been shortened to six tracks consisting of instrumental chorus loops due to limited storage capacity.Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 was ported to the PC by LTI Gray Matter and was released in North America in October 2000 and in Europe the following month.
1634	The version's only playable modes were the Career, Single Session and Free Skate modes, and the soundtrack was remade.
1635	Kristan Reed of Eurogamer considered the iOS port to be "a surprisingly enjoyable conversion", though he noted the overly-faithful graphics, the struggling framerate on older iOS devices, the lack of a multiplayer mode and some soundtrack changes to be flaws.Next Generation gave five stars out of five for the Game Boy Advance version of the game; they were surprised by its well executed translation of the original game for GBA platform.Following its release, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 was the top-selling PlayStation title for two consecutive weeks.
1636	Tony Hawks Pro Skater 2 Considered the definitive skating title at the time and arguably by todays standards, Tony Hawks Pro Skater 2 is just pure gameplay perfection.
1637	The trick variety and mechanics, including the beloved Manual, work well with the controls and the level design, featuring some of the series best, encourages replay value while hosting a myriad of secrets.
1638	This meditative experience encourages replaying, meeting different people and living in the world, going from a bystander to a tour guide as you usher in new players.
1639	The organic gameplay encourages experimentation in the sandbox.The quiet, peaceful music and gentle breeze that flows through the world as you explore.
1640	With multiplayer, a park editor, hidden characters and a fantastic soundtrack, Tony Hawks Pro Skater 2 is a joy to experience and still holds up all these years later, as evidenced in Tony Hawks Pro Skater 1 + 2, the remake.22.
1641	But Monster Hunter World, especially post-Iceborne, stands out for offering perhaps the most well-rounded Monster Hunter experience out there.Its accessible for brand-new players and features the smoothest gameplay in the series (arguably even better than Rise).
1642	But the bosses, the environment design, the exploration and the haunting atmosphere are all masterfully executed, ensuring a quality experience even now.14.
1643	Not only it managed to deliver an exceptional experience but it surpassed player expectations.
1644	Explaining why the entire experience is incredible is difficult, but its the dozens of little things  the feeling of wonder around every corner.
1645	Walking out of the Shrine of Resurrection and overlooking Hyrule for the first time is a religious experience in gaming circles and is a moment that will live on in the minds of those who experienced it.
1646	The world is vast, the lack of guidance allows for users to experience the game in any way they desire, and the many new mechanics were mind-blowing.
1647	The massive world and time traveling element were an entirely new experience for users and that first play through can never be replicated.
1648	The story of Kilo Squad immersed us in each characters demons while simultaneously introducing a depressing yet rich world rife with conflict and intrigue.There are more than a few nagging areas, like Doms AI, but so much of what makes the series great was executed so well in the original.
1649	Now add some gorgeous visuals, some of the generations best  thats Horizon Forbidden West.Even if youre not overly invested in the story (which is still pretty good), the improvements made to the presentation  especially the motion capture and facial animations in dialogue exchange  are fantastic.
1650	You roam some gorgeous levels with linear objectives, exploring and discovering mysterious runes, and fly through the air, attempting to decipher it all.
1651	The gorgeous aesthetic.
1652	Gran Turismo 3: A-Spec Racing games are known to be at the very cutting edge of technology, and GT3 was a prime example of that achievement for the PlayStation 2.
1653	The solid platforming returned, made all the more intense with some incredible set pieces, while the shooting was even more responsive.
1654	The remake looks good, but considering how high the bar is, it has a lot to live up to when capturing that mix of greyish moral tones and the undulating terror lurking within each person.9.
1655	The Last of Us Part 1 Say what you will about the remake and how its a giant cash grab, especially without Factions.
1656	Say what you will about the business practices, but the remake is a masterpiece in its own right.3.
1657	Shooting games, racing games, story-based games, horror games, indie games, RPGs Trying to capture the breadth of the entire industry is like trying to catch a fly.
1658	But by God, were going to do it.Weve batted games back and forth across the entire GLHF team, voting and voting until we settled on a shortlist, then voting again to figure out each games placement.
1659	A game to play with friends and enjoy<mct>Among Us keeps the focus on those heated debates that take the entire room through their own personal murder-mystery as you get closer and closer to finding the truth.I wanna take you for a ride, Marvel vs. Capcom 2s character select screen screamed at us while we decided whether we preferred Felicias claws to Wolverines.
1660	There are long stretches where youre on the road, slurping toilet water to survive, and its those moments that make the big decisions  do you want to nuke an entire town to get a posh apartment or no?
1661	As part of a group of sky pirates, the entire adventure sees you making key discoveries about the world  new continents, anomalies, and even the fact that the world is a sphere.
1662	In Morrowind, you can mess up your entire playthrough by killing a key character, but it doesnt matter  these games are more than just their main quests.
1663	Then there are the magic and alchemy systems which, if you knew what you were doing, could be abused to create potions that allow you to leap and fly across the entire map.
1664	Whats that  the entire day has gone?
1665	The Legacy Collection offers all of the Mega Man games with a life-saving save state option, which lets everyone have the chance at experiencing Mega Mans greatness without tearing their hair out.A lot of games are about saving the world, being the hero, doing the right thing.
1666	Do you let in a man with the right paperwork, even though you know hes trafficking people?
1667	There are no right or wrong answers.
1668	Civ 4s systems are complex and mesh perfectly to create the right depth and degree of challenge.
1669	Wavedashes, dash-dancing, L-cancelling, and more competitive techniques make this one of the fastest and most intense games to ever be played competitively, right up there with StarCraft 2.
1670	This combination cemented the Dark Souls formula, and while subsequent games may have sped things up considerably, all games in the series focus on patience, dodging at the right time, and striking back whenever you can.
1671	There is a reason why this fantastical tale of swords and souls has spawned so many sequels.Thief II took everything right about stealth games, and then added a dash of steampunk-infused magic.
1672	Adding to the mix was the perfect anti-hero who wouldn't even consider the possibility of saving the world unless the end of the world meant no more houses to steal from.Thief II gave the player all the right tools for the perfect heist, along with interactive maps for writing notes.
1673	Set a goal and then do everything in your power to achieve it.
1674	They all loudly scream that youre destroying everything upon defeat.
1675	If youve never crept through an enemy base and stole soldiers with a fulton baloon while listening to Spandau Ballet on a walkman, you havent lived.Dragon Age: Origins felt like one of the few RPGs available on console at the time that delivered on everything it promised.
1676	The cobbles, the viscera  everything is imposing and intimidating, but so are you.
1677	However, the remakes Pokmon Heart Gold and Soul Silver do everything a good remake should.
1678	They take the core of the original games which are so beloved; the sprawling open world that expands over two separate regions, and the best final boss of any game in the franchise, and just made everything better.
1679	Crusader Kings 3 makes Game of Thrones look like kindergarten  and its glorious!Trying to explain to your friends what youre doing when youre playing The Binding of Isaac will only be met with a shocked expression.
1680	The main thing that makes this side-scrolling brawler stand out in an era of similar games is not only the masterful soundtrack and special moves that cost health to deal big damage, but just how well the co-op worked.
1681	Part of what makes Fallout 3 work so well is how barren it is.
1682	This was probably the pitch meeting for Into the Breach, a turn-based strategy game where you can punch kaiju through mountains.A wordless adventure game where your only objective it to reach the summit of a mountain, what actually makes this game special is the, you know, journey it takes you on.
1683	All these years later, Final Fantasy 14 represents everything that makes this series great.
1684	Undertale will make you question what makes a good RPG (and person) while also breaking your heart.The only thing better than one Kirby game is eight Kirby games all tied together in a neat little bow.
1685	The precision of this fight is one of the many things that makes Hollow Knight so great.
1686	However, that strict adherence to going against tradition is what makes Links Awakening great.
1687	As a roguelike, youll need to play it dozens of times before you get a single ending, and there are so many new upgrades, bosses, and endings to unlock that even the most seasoned players come back for more.
1688	And its not even a single standout in an otherwise bad game.
1689	Combat is nothing special, but the fact every single object in the game can be used as a weapon elevates the action.
1690	You cant see everything there is to see in a single playthrough.
1691	Combat was always secondary, progress was slow, lights needed to be shot out, and every single door needed a fiber optic camera shoving under it before entering a new room.
1692	Ship-to-ship combat that takes into account every single upgrade and tweak of your flying base.Multiplayer shooters seemed impossible to completely get right on console at the time, but with a few cheeky assists programmed in from the team at Rareware, Goldeneye 007, also known as Goldeneye 64, managed to become the first essential shooter.
1693	Where most games of the time were beholden to a single genre, Deus Ex managed to blend RPG with stealth game with a first-person shooter, creating a genre-blended masterpiece where player expression is paramount.
1694	Not a single tree to punch in sight  just an alien ocean, your escape pod, and a crashed ship thats slowly leaking radioactive muck into the sea.
1695	Well, the fact it was free definitely plays a part, but theres an unapologetic sense of fun that almost every other battle royale shies away from.
1696	Then theres the quality of the side missions, from hunting a serial killer to coming face to face with a flying Manbat.
1697	Then theres the co-op campaign, which featured entirely new levels, a fresh story, and challenges tailored to suit two players.
1698	When youre not soaring through the skies on a flying galleon, theres plenty of traditional turn-based combat in dungeons, towns to explore, and characters to meet.
1699	Theres also something about Morrowinds idea of public transport thats still novel, with its gangly silt strider creatures hanging around at bus stops adding intentionality to every journey you take.There are a lot of survival games these days, but theres only one Subnautica.
1700	It sounds simple, but theres so much flexibility in how your decks can synergize that its almost impossible to have just one more go.
1701	From the nuances of the doors of Apex Legends to the character skills, weapon differences, and map rotations, theres a lot to learn if you want to get competitive, but there are few games that provide the same euphoria as winning a tense battle in the final zone.Uncharted 4 might be mechanically superior, but this was the game that really put Naughty Dog on the map.
1702	Did we mention theres a free trial up to level 60?
1703	It doesnt matter what game youre playing, unleashing a Kamehameha on someone coming at you with a Lightsaber is a cool experience.There are few games as influential as the original Modern Warfare, for better and for worse.
1704	The Last of Us Part 2 is the better game by far  more open, better combat, improved AI, and smart stealth  but it wouldnt work without the first game, which itself set the bar for every PlayStation exclusive that followed.
1705	The game and its expansions, Armageddons Blade and The Shadow of Death, spawned a cult following with a dedicated modding community that continues to release fully-featured unofficial expansions that completely revamp the base game, for better or worse.
1706	Its heist-based single-player, which weaves the stories of three separate protagonists together, still holds up today, and GTA Online is bigger and better than ever.
1707	Weve put dozens of hours into this game and still havent finished, but that hardcore difficulty is just a part of its charm  after all, surely youll have better luck on the next run.
1708	Today, its available for free, the balance is better than ever, player numbers are healthy, it continues to be the most challenging esports game ever after its predecessor Brood War, and the titles co-op system is a model that many next-gen RTS games will follow.
1709	Its the best-selling video game of all time (depending on who you ask about Tetris sales), it almost single-handedly created the YouTube gaming boom of the early 2010s, and it sparked an obsession with the survival/crafting genre that just wont ever seem to die  for better or for worse.
1710	Every decision you make has weight, every character you meet is fleshed out, and the sidequests are generally of better quality than the main missions in most other games.
1711	Its almost Hitman-esque in its simulation of a place  a world that goes on with or without you  giving it near-endless replayability.At least one person reading this will be saying, Erm, actually, Arkham Asylum is the best Batman game.
1712	Strategy game nirvana.Its been almost a year since we last played Deathloop, but were still singing The Revenant from its original soundtrack in our heads.
1713	Theres no Hyrule, Master Sword, Triforce, Ganondorf, or the princess we save in almost every other mainline entry.
1714	It wouldnt be surprising if there are still new expansions for it in 20 years.Its been almost a decade since GTA V launched and theres still not an urban open-world game that even comes close.
1715	An iconic soundtrack, inventive missions, brilliant characters, and a sprawling world that you can almost draw from memory, nobody does it quite like Rockstar.There are a few roguelites on this list, but FTL is unlike any of them.
1716	The world is in your hands.Hideo Kojimas last ever Metal Gear Solid game released unfinished and its still better than almost everything else.
1717	Reinventing Doom for a modern audience meant almost turning it into a character action game  a Devil May Cry for gun nuts  where you manage resources by cycling through your murder methods.
1718	The map layout is almost identical to the original game, but there are plenty of surprises around every corner and the new over-the-shoulder camera completely transforms the action.
1719	Oh, and all this available completely free on every platform, including mobile  the wizards at Hoyoverse could probably get the game to run on your toaster.Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory gave stealth games a real sense of weight, and were not just talking about the weight of your decisions.
1720	Sure, it didnt have the gunfeel of the shooters of the time, and its stealth mechanics werent as in-depth as Thief, but it made up for it in sheer ambition.
1721	Razor sharp platforming, a Disney-quality art style, and a story that manages to pull on your heartstrings without muttering a single word, its not just one of the best indie games ever made, its one of the best Xbox exclusives of all time.Arguably the most influential stealth game ever made.
1722	Without it, would we have Alien Isolation, Far Cry, Deus Ex, and essentially any first-person games with stealth elements?
1723	During development, the team at Looking Glass used submarines as inspiration for the stealth mechanics of Thief  there you are, waiting in the dark for that perfect moment, the right time to expose yourself.
1724	The grandfather of modern stealth games is still worth playing in 2022.This was the essential Xbox RPG.
1725	3D stealth games only really became a thing the year Metal Gear Solid launched, and not a single other game has managed to bottle the same lightning.
1726	Trying to pick the best video games of all time is a task defined by one word: hubris.How could anyone possibly create a definitive list of gamings greatest accomplishments when theres such a wildly large variety of games to choose from?
1727	Construction of a list like this gave us the chance to determine what we value most in the games we love, forcing us to more closely examine our personal favorites and enduring classics.
1728	It was an exchange of passion that reaffirmed our collective love of the medium we cover.Now, were excited to pass those warm feelings along to our readers in a list that captures that spirit.
1729	As you journey through Palworld, you'll come across Pals of different elements with varying Partner Skills which determine how strong they are in combat.With so many to choose from, a Pal list that is ever-expanding, and only a limited amount of space on your team, it can be hard prioritising which to recruit.
1730	It was the kind of task we could slice up hundreds of ways, coming out with completely different lists every single time based on our preferred methodology.
1731	Thats a testament to the rich history of games, which offer countless diverse experiences worthy of praise.So it may seem silly to try and distill that rich landscape down to a short list.
1732	That led to long conversations where each writer involved got a chance to gush about the titles they love.
1733	Whether thats giving you a deeper understanding of how a genre formed or presenting the kind of jaw-dropping spectacle that captures the mediums endless potential, these are the games that still resonate with us in an ever-expanding universe of interactive experiences.So indulge us in our hubris and follow along with our picks for the 50 best video games of all time.
1734	~ Giovanni Colantonio, Gaming Section Editor Honorable mentions:Borderlands 2, Candy Crush Saga, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, Destiny 2, Elden Ring, Fallout: New Vegas, Final Fantasy XIV, Galaga, Gauntlet, God of War (2018), Inside, Kingdom Hearts 2, Myst, Persona 5 Royal, Red Dead Redemption 2, SimCity 2000, Streets of Rage 2, Super Mario Odyssey, System Shock 2, Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?The Victrix Pro BFG is getting an upgrade in the form of new modules that feature Hall Effect joysticks.
1735	That includes taking out its joystick modules and slotting in a fight pad, or switching the orientation of the sticks to match PlayStation and Xbox layouts.
1736	Those who own the modular controller will be able to purchase the new pieces in early 2024 either as a a two-pack or individually.Released last year, the Pro BFG is a unique third-party controller that allows players to swap out several components on the fly.
1737	Victrix will not double down on that design by releasing a standalone module that replaces its joysticks with those using Hall Effect technology.I've struggled to find an audio solution that works for PC gaming.
1738	Over-ear headphones, even premium ones like the SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pros, irritate my ears by pressing into my glasses.
1739	And earbuds, almost regardless of brand, either lack the features I want out of a premium audio experience or come with horrendous Bluetooth lag.
1740	The new Sony InZone Buds have finally solved my problem.They're a set of true wireless earbuds built for gaming.
1741	That's not new, as we've seen with earbuds like the HyperX Cloud Mix.
1742	The difference here is that the InZone Buds come from Sony, makers of some of the best true wireless earbuds.Why the InZone Buds are special First impressions are important.
1743	Thats true both in people and video game consoles.The first time you boot up a new gaming system can be a magical moment when done right.
1744	And Im not just speaking in metaphor here; Im talking about the all-important console startup sound.Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
1745	Price: pounds 39.99.2 STREET FIGHTER II Anyone who does not know the name Street Fighter must have been living on a desert island.
1746	Price: around pounds 20.3 SUPER MARIO KART When you're talking about classic video games, few spring to mind ahead of Super Mario Kart.
1747	Price: around pounds 15.4 LEGEND OF ZELDA Zelda's first release on the NES, back in 1987, was a landmark in role- playing games.
1748	Price: pounds 44.99.5 TOTAL ANNIHILATION When Command & Conquer (see No 22) first came out several years ago, it dominated the strategy war-game genre - till the release of Total Annihilation, the war game to end all war games.
1749	Price: pounds 19.99.6 TIME CRISIS Arguably the best arcade game to date, Time Crisis transferred almost flawlessly from coin-op to console.
1750	Price: pounds 60.7 TEKKEN 3 One of the most hyped video games of 1998, Tekken 3 fully justified the fuss, boasting the most accurate and fluid graphics ever to hit the Play-Station.
1751	Price: pounds 39.99.8 GRAN TURISMO Well, what can you say about Gran Turismo?
1752	Price: pounds 39.99.9 TOMB RAIDER When Ms Croft exploded onto the PlayStation a few years back, Tomb Raider single-handedly changed the face of platform games forever.
1753	No other racing game has come close to the playability of this golden oldie.
1754	Price: around pounds 10.24 WORMS These psychotic insects have won fans all over the world with a combination of simple playability and crazy action.
1755	Now on the N64, everyone's favourite elf has made jaws drop all over the world with his latest and greatest adventure, Legend of Zelda.
1756	Price: around pounds 10.30 COMMANDOS: BEHIND ENEMY LINES Commandos is by far my favourite PC strategy game to date.
1757	"My favourite new feature has to be the apple bazooka," adds Gabriella.By: Sony (1998).On: PlayStation.Price: pounds 39.99.35 THEME PARK Everyone who thought that a game based on building up a theme park would be an instant flop was put firmly in their place when this title was released.
1758	"Definitely one of my favourite games of last year," proclaims Dave Perry.
1759	The moves are amazing, and hidden options, from "Tekken Ball" to "Tekken Force", mean that, just when you think there's no more to do, another surprise pops out of the woodwork.
1760	Judge Ed rules this "the best fighting game around because of its fantastic characters, numerous fighting moves and brilliant control".By: Sega (1996).
1761	This is the Megadrive's wonder fighting game, with a vast array of moves and special effects to keep the player entertained for days on end.
1762	Not only are the normal moves blood-thirsty, but when you have defeated a player, you are given a chance to pull off a fatality in any one of several gut-wrenching manoeuvres, from biting their heads off to ripping their spines out: the 18 certificate is well deserved.
1763	"Because it is by the same people that made the classic Street Fighter games," says Ed, "each character has a brilliant selection of over-the- top special moves that fits their comic-book persona perfectly."
1764	This is a 3D beat-'em-up that looks amazingly similar to Sega's Virtua Fighter (No 21), though it has fewer moves than Sega's heavyweight game.
1765	Of all the beat-'em-ups around, this is the easiest to play - just one tap of a button gets these pint-sized nutters pulling off some extraordinary moves - involving everything from beach-balls to dragons.
1766	Dave Perry calls this "the greatest soccer simulation ever programmed".
1767	As if the superb graphics are not enough, the gameplay is the most intense you are ever likely to encounter.
1768	But the best aspect of this game is the superb array of characters.
1769	And it was the first "happy" game on the PlayStation that was a big success, as fans everywhere flocked to guide Croc, an orphan crocodile, around a superb 3D world, in order to defeat the evil Baron Dante.
1770	The Mad Hatter-style light-gun action makes for superb entertainment.
1771	Even so, the superb graphics and responsive gameplay have made this a popular title.
1772	As the years went by, improved consoles meant better graphics, as well as the birth of the next generation of Fifa games, the latest addition to which is the superb line Fifa '99.
1773	Price: Mortal Kombat 4, pounds 39.99.33 COLIN MACRAE RALLY While real-life rally driver Colin worked his magic on the track, Codemasters worked their magic in the development lab and created one of the best driving games ever.
1774	Behind the wheel of one of a number of high-performance rally cars, the player charges around realistic tracks in pursuit of the championship title.
1775	"No 1 in the PlayStation chart for months, this is still the king of rally simulations," says Dave Perry.
1776	This is the final game put forward by Jon, who nominates it for the clever balance of smart graphics, complex gameplay and cool sounds.By: Microsoft (1996).On: pounds 19.99.Price: PC-CD.Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later?
1777	Its levels are impeccably designed to reward careful exploration and planning, and provide multiple ways to complete objectives with secrets crammed in every corner.Final Fantasy VII is a landmark JRPG for a variety of reasons, but many of its achievements have now been lost to the winds of time and technological progress.
1778	The slide ability gave Mega Man a much mobility upgrade, and his friendly robot pooch, Rush, allowed him to explore greater heights and find more hidden secrets than in any of his previous outings.
1779	Mass Effect managed to create an intricate new universe and fill it with compelling lore and secrets to discover, and one of the most intriguing campaign arcs of a sci-fi game to date.
1780	From secrets and scrawlings hidden within the walls of Portal's testing facility, to the way it slowly uncovers the mystery of who Glad0s is offers environmental storytelling at some of its finest.
1781	If you make a game character thats fun to control, and then put that character in a unique world full of secrets that reward the inquisitive, the end result is a game thats very hard not to love.But its one specific moment in Symphony that elevates it from merely being a game I love into its position as one of the best games ever made.
1782	Its also one of the most epic video game secrets of all time.
1783	So when I received Super Mario Bros. 3 from Santa one year, and saw on the back of the box that Mario could fly, I knew I was in for something special.The game exceeded my every hope and wish for it, and I spent hundreds of blissful afternoons defeating Koopa Kids, rescuing kings, and discovering secrets strewn throughout Mushroom World.
1784	Its not just that there are secrets hidden everywhere (although there are, and its awesome)  its that the game teases you with tantalizing clues  items, always just out of reach.
1785	Yet, its age has done nothing to change its status as the series' most popular and beloved entry, which has come about thanks to its wide cast of detailed, emotionally-driven characters that journey through one of the most memorable worlds to emerge from Japan's development scene.
1786	Pair all that with an incredible soundtrack and challenging bullet hell battles and you've got one incredibly memorable game.League of Legends exists in a magical place that lies somewhere between intense competition and fun and enjoyable strategy.
1787	With hand-built palaces instead of dungeons, a stunning visual style and art direction, and a memorable and moving soundtrack, this easily stands out as the most impressive Persona game yet.
1788	All of that on top of a fantastic story and memorable characters make this one of the best JRPGs ever made.Fortnite changed the playing field of battle royales upon its release in 2017.
1789	While later entries in the series may have failed to deliver on the seeds planted in this first chapter, the momentous choices that ME1 offered us were - and remain - some of the most compelling branching plot points out there, ones that won't be forgotten any time soon.E3 2007 was memorable for a couple of reasons.
1790	The highlight  not just of the demo but arguably of the entire game  was watching, breath held, as an entire armoured patrol trundled past, inches from our hiding spot, and its a moment of tension thats never been matched in a shooter since.Electric set-pieces and superb pacing make Modern Warfares single-player campaign one of the most memorable first-person shooters ever, but its the perfectly balanced multiplayer that made it the de rigueur online game for years to follow.
1791	Thats largely in part thanks to one of the most memorable locations in gaming history.
1792	Great and memorable weapons, from the simple crowbar to the silent sniper crossbow and the biological homing weapon that shoots alien bees, made fighting through the spooky ruins of Black Mesa a fantastic battle.Theres a reason a snakes skeleton, and not a snake itself, features prominently in the title sequence of Snake Eater.
1793	Plus, you never knew when youd stumble upon random events that would sometimes deliver game-changingly powerful items.
1794	Undertale puts the player in a unique situation; where you'd usually kill everything in your way, Undertale gives you the option to spare every monster you meet, though it never requires it.
1795	As your city grows, youll have to keep track of things like mass transit, entertainment, and the economy but the difficulty curve never feels too steep, and success always seems just a stadium away.
1796	Plus, theres never been a more satisfying feeling than zoning a land for residential and first seeing people move in.With the mechanical abandon of a Mario game and the worldview of Werner Herzog, Inside spends its three brilliant hours of life holding the player in a loop of intrigue, delight, and disgust.Playdead's bleak, gorgeous puzzle-platformer builds on its predecessor Limbo in all the right places  hello, colour palettes; goodbye, boring gravity puzzles.
1797	The result was uneasy but never frustrating, subversive but familiar.
1798	Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is a sexy, sour, excellent sendup of the decade that will never die.Persona 5 feels like the Persona game the team always wanted to make but didnt have the technology to achieve.
1799	With the steady flow of fresh content and updates to Fortnites Battle Royale, it stands out in its genre as a colorful and unique title other games have yet to compete with.The original Fable, while very very good, never quite lived up to co-creator Peter Molyneux's lofty "plant an acorn and it will grow into a tree over the course of the game" promises.
1800	But whats more, theres so much lying just around the corner, off the beaten path, that you could never even stumble upon it in a hundred hours as the Dragonborn.
1801	Every monster killed or spared alters something in the world, whether it be another monster wondering what happened to their friend, an opportunity for a hilarious date, or a slightly easier time with a specific monster's bullet hell battle.
1802	But for one shining moment, we all collectively agreed that THPS2 was, and still is, the perfect skateboarding game.Kill a monster, make gear out of its parts, and hunt a stronger monster sounds like a gameplay loop that can get old fast, but Monster Hunter: World has taken that decade-old hook and downright perfected it.
1803	World has streamlined the cycle and made the introduction into monster hunting more palatable for newcomers all without watering down the deep action-RPG mechanics longtime fans loved most.With 14 unique weapons that all control entirely differently, endless armor customization options that change more than just fashion, and incredibly difficult (but fair) fights that reward players with an incomparable sense of accomplishment, Monster Hunter: World is in a world of its own when it comes to endless replayability and challenge.
1804	Part love story, part monster hunt, part parable, Shadow of the Colossus borrows heavily from what came before, but inspires much of what came after.Though there'd already been two official entries in the Metal Gear series (not counting Snake's Revenge, which we don't talk about) it wasn't until Snake covertly slithered his way onto the PlayStation that this franchise cemented itself as a big deal.
1805	From its haunting score, to the beautifully written and acted story of Kratos and Atreus, to the incredible feel of the Leviathan Axe, God of War's impressive craftsmanship shines through at every step, honoring the past while forging its own path.For all its inter-dimensional threats, monster hunts and magic powers, Ive always thought The Witcher 3s key achievement is in how it nails the mundane.
1806	- Brendan Graeber (Read Our Review) Kill a monster, make gear out of its parts, and hunt a stronger monster sounds like a gameplay loop that can get old fast, but Monster Hunter: World has taken that decade-old hook and perfected it.
1807	World has streamlined the cycle and made the introduction into monster hunting more palatable for newcomers all without watering down the deep action-RPG mechanics longtime fans loved most.
1808	Part love story, part monster hunt, part parable, Shadow of the Colossus borrows heavily from what came before, but inspires much of what came after.
1809	The unpredictability makes the feeling of going from scrappy underdog to elite alien-butt-kicking futuristic super soldier squad incredibly rewarding, every single time.
1810	Pro gamers, cosplayers, fanfic writers, ARG detectives and everyone in between have all been given a reason to play a single game  no mean feat.And this isnt to play down the game itself  Blizzard didnt make a Team Fortress clone, it made a successor.
1811	Its the reason I love first-person shooters and the reason I stuck by PC gaming at a young age, and I owe it all to its earliest iterations.Left 4 Dead 2 came out exactly a year after the original, which upset a lot of people who (incorrectly) assumed the sequel would be a glorified expansion pack to the first.
1812	There's a reason too.
1813	Even at the twilight of the SNES lifespan, Chrono Triggers branching narrative, colorful characters and unforgettable soundtrack were are more than enough to earn it a place on our list in this timeline or any other.There's a reason first-person puzzle games far and wide are constantly compared to Portal  though a brief adventure, its gameplay, tone, writing, and structure so cohesively work together to create one of the most memorable, challenging, and fascinating puzzle games around.
1814	We'll wait the 30+ hours  this is important.2008's GTA 4 may have been the reason that I bought an Xbox 360, but RDR is the reason I kept it.
1815	Theres no great, existential reason for Super Mario World to remain at the top of IGNs list.
1816	Each contributor ranked his top 25 games, and the total scores were tallied golf style, with the total number of nominations breaking the tie.
1817	This 2013 game has been released on three generations of consoles while still receiving updates in GTA Online to keep the world fresh and player counts high.Nominations: one High ranking: five Dan Benton: Following the controversial The Adventure of Link, Nintendo released A Link to the Past on their brand new SNES console.
1818	People are still playing vanilla World of Warcraft, 20 years later.Nominations: one High ranking: three NS: There might be a bit of recency bias with this selection, but the wealth of highly polished content and varied paths to the same goal make Baldurs Gate 3 one of the best RPGs of all time.
1819	(Photo by Christian Petersen/Getty Images) Nominations: one High ranking: three MM: SOCOM was one of the first online games available for the PS2 and even came with a headset that allowed for in-game communication.
1820	A campaign mode that allowed you to control three AI teammates via voice commands was the cherry on top.Nominations: one High ranking: two TC: BioWare hit a home run with this sequel to 2007s Mass Effect.
1821	There was an expansive open world with no shortage of things to do and cheat codes only made the experience more fun.Nominations: two High ranking: three DB: There were solid first-person shooters before the release of GoldenEye 007 and there have been more quality adaptations since then, but it was such a unique multi-player experience on the N64 that it can not be overlooked.
1822	For newer or younger games, its still a fun experience even if someone is always cheating by looking at your screen.AFP PHOTO / Yoshikazu TSUNO (Photo by YOSHIKAZU TSUNO / AFP) (Photo by YOSHIKAZU TSUNO/AFP via Getty Images) Nominations: two High ranking: three TC: The generation one trio of Pokmon Red, Blue, and Yellow, the games that started a worldwide trend represent the peak of handheld gaming.
1823	You had to live through the hype to truly appreciate the mark this game left on the industry.Syndication: Springfield Nominations: three High ranking: three Tetris took the world by storm when Nintendo packed it in with the Game Boy, and before long it was the game anybody could play.
1824	The best puzzle game has gone on to spawn countless versions and ports, but the pure simplicity and addictiveness is ubiquitous.Syndication: USATODAY Nominations: three High ranking: one TC: Never has a game carried such an emotional impact as the story of Arthur Morgan and the Van der Linde Gang.
1825	And like all other Zelda titles, the music was top-tier.screengrab Nominations: one High ranking: four Michael Moraitis: New World had its fair share of issues early on, but developers have done an excellent job fixing those problems and its a much more complete game in 2024.
1826	(Photo by Dan R. Krauss/Getty Images) Nominations: one High ranking: four Kevin McGuire: Casual gaming may have become mainstream with The Sims.
1827	(Photo by Joe Scarnici/Getty Images) Nominations: one High ranking: four Nick Schwartz: Recent expansions may not have hit the mark, but over an opening decade-plus of excellence, World of Warcraft revolutionized the MMO genre and became a worldwide phenomenon in a way few games can compare.
1828	Set in a graphically beautifully and shared open world, the game has a ton of things to do for both PvE and PvP players and appeals to both newbies and hardcore players of the genre.Nominations: one High ranking: four TC: The greatest real-time strategy game ever made, Brood War expanded on the base StarCraft game, bringing new units and buildings in the war between the Zerg, Protoss and Terran forces.
1829	Anthem will always be the one that got away.Nominations: one High ranking: one NS: The Witcher 3 set a breathtaking standard for open worlds, narrative-driven RPGs and meaningful side quests, and arguably wasnt matched in either category for *eight whole years* until Baldurs Gate 3 released.
1830	After taking players through games such as the Dark Souls series, Bloodborne and Sekiro, they threw it all into the open world of The Lands Between.
1831	If you have never played a good guy and seen Arthurs cutscene with Mother Superior Caldern, you are missing out on one of the great scenes in media.Nominations: four High ranking: one DB: The Legend of Zelda has always been a cross between an open world game and a puzzle game.
1832	Ocarina of Time blends those together perfectly with a vast open space that allows Link to explore freely without any significant restrictions.
1833	Will Wright, creator of the iconic SimCity franchise, went one step further by allowing gamers to control the lives of a Sim going through life one day at a time.
1834	Players who took the correct route could even get a special ending that included Foxs father helping him escape harm in the games final mission.Nominations: two High ranking: 11 TC: One of the best fighting games ever made, Street Fighter II opened its roster of fighters, including some of the most iconic characters in gaming history.
1835	screengrab via Wikipedia) Nominations: two High ranking: eight MM: Filled with iconic characters who each had their own weaknesses, you simply couldnt button-mash your way through the ranks.
1836	(Photo by Yuki IWAMURA / AFP) (Photo by YUKI IWAMURA/AFP via Getty Images) Nominations: two High ranking: eight MM: After utilizing a top-down view for the first two installments of the series, GTA III moved to a third-person view, which revolutionized the gameplay and paved the way for it to become one of the most iconic franchises in gaming history.
1837	(Photo by Ed JONES / AFP) (Photo by ED JONES/AFP via Getty Images) Nominations: one High ranking: one KM: The Legend of Zelda went in a whole new direction in Breath of the Wild, which made a strong case for being the best Zelda game of all time.
1838	The gameplay was easy to learn and hard to master as players learned about type advantages and evolution on their way to becoming the Pokmon Champion of the Kanto region.Syndication: Amarillo Globe-News Nominations: three High ranking: 19 KM: The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles had quite a history on home consoles back in the 1990s, but Turtles in Time showcased the best game in the franchise and brought the fun of the arcade game home the way few games could do reliably.Nominations: three High ranking: two KM: Before jumping into the world of 3D, Nintendo set the bar high for everything a 2D platformer should be with Super Mario Bros. 3.
1839	He responded thusly:While Western readers may feel that Kamiya not knowing about Valve is akin to an American developer not knowing about Nintendo, the statement is not all that surprising in context.
1840	Despite PC gaming having such a stellar 2012 in the West, the second half of his tweet accurately represents the general feeling toward PC gaming in Japana total lack of interest.How low exactly is the interest in PC gaming in Japan?
1841	That includes World of Warcraft, Starcraft II, Guild Wars 2, and Diablo III, just to name a few.
1842	Moreover, to find a game on Steam, you must type the name in English.
1843	Typing the name in Japanese results in zero matching results.
1844	In fact, Media Create, the go-to company for video game sales figures in Japan, doesn't even bother to track PC game sales.In Japan, the PC is the system for Final Fantasy XI, Phantasy Star Online 2 (and other Japanese/Korean MMOs), browser games, visual novels, and erotic games.These days the net is overflowing with free-to-play MMORPGs.
1845	And while both services are available in Japan, they aren't that helpful for Japanese gamers.Steam is a carbon copy of the US version, with all the games in Englishas well as the games' descriptions.
1846	The only change is that any games set to be released in Japan (on the PC or any other system) are often blocked and unavailable for download.CORRECTION: Japanese Steam is practically a carbon copy of the US version.
1847	Out of the 1706 games Steam has for sale at the moment, only 105 of those can be played in the Japanese languageand only around half of those have the game's description in Japanese.
1848	And to top it off, games set to be released in Japan (on the PC or any other system) are sometimes blocked and unavailable for download.While the majority of Origin's stock is similarly the English versions of the games, they do have a few Japanese language versions of EA's first party titles on the store as wellso that's better than nothing.Thus "hardcore PC gamers," as we would think of them, are a small niche in Japan that find themselves often forced to import many of today's most popular PC games in a language they do not speak.Hideki Kamiya also had a few words to say about "cloud" services such as Steam:Again, this statement, while baffling to many in the Western world, is completely in line with the standard Japanese line of thinking.
1849	Japan is a country where CD rental is still a booming business despite that we live in a day and age where MP3 downloads are readily available.This is because, by and large, Japanese people have had a distrust of purchasing things on the internet.
1850	This distrust is so commonplace you can go to your local convince store in Japan and pay cash for your Nintendo online game downloads so you don't need to give out any information online.
1851	Of course, as time has passed, Japanese people have been getting more conformable with buying online.
1852	However, Kamiya's statements still reflect the general sentiment regarding PC gaming in Japanfor better or for worse.UPDATE: The original headline for this story"The Guy Who Made Bayonetta Is Clueless about Valve and PC Gaming"has been changed.
1853	"Clueless" was a poor choice of words and we apologize for the negative connotation.
1854	Here's a tier list of the best Pals in Palworld ranked Looking for a Pal tier list to rank the best Pals in Palworld?
1855	Luckily, we've organised all Pals into a tier list below and then went through our top ten essential picks.
1856	Featured are the best Pals for combat, the best base Pals, mounts and more.The following Pal tier list contains all Pals currently available in Palworld.
1857	Below we've ranked them according to the strongest Pals in combat, the fastest mounts and how useful they are at your base when performing tasks like Planting, Handiwork and more.Be sure to check below this tier list for a breakdown of our top ten Pals and a rundown of why each Pal should be a vital member of your team.Now you should have a good idea which are the best Pals in Palworld.
1858	If you manage to catch one, however, you'll be able to defeat any Pals foolish enough to get in your way.That rounds off our guide to the best Pals in Palworld including a full Pal tier list and a top ten roundup.
1859	In her spare time, if shes not causing trouble as her Wildfire Druid alter-ego, she can be found painting more of her ever-expanding Stormcast army.Please enable JavaScript to see comments.Palworld type chart: All element types explained Palworld: Tips and tricks for beginners Fastest mounts in Palworld Palworld: Best base locations Latest Palworld update defaults your Pals to "Relax" and lets you create artificial volcano conditions Palworld Pal Fluids: How to get and where to find Palworld map of recommended area levels Best Lumbering Pals in Palworld Wordle hint and answer today #987 (March 2 2024) Today's NYT Connections hint and answers (Sat, Mar 2) How to get the Glider Launcher in Sons of the Forest Palworld type chart: All element types explained Palworld: Tips and tricks for beginners Best Last Epoch class and mastery tier list The best Elden Ring mods (2024) Genshin Impact codes Rock Paper Shotgun is owned by Gamer Network Limited, a ReedPop company and subsidiary of Reed Exhibitions Limited.
1860	Below, we've listed the top ten Pals you need to recruit, where to find them and what makes them a worthwhile addition to your team.Whilst there are perhaps more fearsome-looking Pals on this list, the Lyleen provides some powerful buffs both to combat and to base management.The Lyleen resides in a top spot for both our best Planting Pals and best Medicine Production Pals lists.
1861	It can also strengthen the player's defence making it a jack of all trades and immeasurably useful against a range of Pal types.If you have many Production Assembly Lines, you'll need an Electric Pal to help you maintain power and keep your base at maximum production efficiency.
1862	This is one of few Pals with restorative powers and is infinitely useful when taking on powerful foes.Whilst the Lyleen predominantly has Grass-type powers, they also do have access to a Water-based power, Aqua Burst, at level 22.The Verdash has a range of valuable skills which make it a worthy recruit for your base and one of the best base Pals and best Gathering Pals.Additionally, the Verdash can increase the player's movement speed in combat and apply Grass damage to all of the player's attacks, making it especially useful when fighting Ground-type foes.Verdash Pals also have access to strong Ground damage attacks like the Stone Cannon which has an attack power of 70 despite the fact it can be unlocked at just level 7.The Warsect is proficient in both Grass and Ground attacks and is both the best Grass Pal and best Lumbering Pal to recruit in Palworld due to its skill proficiencies.If you want a Pal that can cover as many elements as possible, Warsect Pals can apply Fire damage to all of the player's attacks when recruited in your team.
1863	This means it's a useful Pal to recruit at your base when you expect to do a lot of building and wish to expedite the process.Perhaps more importantly, it's also the best Ground Pal in Paworld with access to unique attacks like the Spinning Roundhouse spin kick, Ground Smash AOE attack and Forceful Charge punch attack.Additionally, the Anubis can move faster than most Pals and perform a side dodge whilst also applying Ground damage to all of the player's attacks.
1864	This attack is worth 100 power and is a precursor to even more powerful attacks as the Jormuntide levels up.Few can outmatch the Jormuntide, except its variant species the Jormuntide Ignis, detailed below.Like its blue cousin, the Jormuntide Ignis is a master of both combat and utility.
1865	With a level 4 proficiency, it's the best Kindling Pal in the game, useful for producing Ingots at your base or cooking meals.It's also the best Fire Pal in Palworld, with the ability to enhance all Fire attacks of Pals in your team when ridden as a mount.With access to Fire, Dragon and Electric attacks, its sure to help you in most combat situations.
1866	This is a legendary Pal, super rare and has access to Fire, Dragon and Dark attacks, making it a formidable predator both in the skies and on land.The Jetragon takes our top pick for the best Dragon Pal in Palworld due to its powerful repertoire of attacks and grenade launcher Partner Skill.
1867	The Orserk is the best pal for Generating Electricity in the game and has a level 4 in this skill proficiency.Simultaneously, it's the best Electric Pal due to its impressive Kerauno skill, worth 100 power.
1868	Astonishingly, this power can be unlocked from level 1 and essentially equips the Orserk with a throwable blade made of lightning.The Orserk can additionally perform a Lightning Strike at level 7, which deals out 120 power.
1869	If you're looking to collect both rare and powerful Pals, the Paladius should be on your list.The Anubis is the best Handiwork Pal in the game with a level 4 proficiency in the skill.
1870	Capable of Water, Electric and Dragon attacks, it can summon an Aqua Burst (a ball of water to launch at enemies) at level 22.
1871	Its most powerful Fire attack can be accessed at level 40 (unlike other Pals that have to wait until level 50) and is worth 150 power.
1872	Each level has ten objectives to perform within a period of two minutes.
1873	Some objectives are found in all levels, such as accumulating a particular score, collecting letters of the word "SKATE" scattered throughout the level or seeking and obtaining a hidden videotape.
1874	The construction of a level is initiated on a flat and empty canvas that can be rotated at any angle.
1875	The game takes place in an isometric overhead perspective and features all levels and game modes excluding the level editor, multiplayer and modes.
1876	These are figures that most Pals have to wait until levels 40 plus to unlock.The Necromus is arguably the best Dark Pal in Palworld due to its hard-hitting Nightmare Ball, Twin Spears and Dark Laser attacks.
1877	This contract would give Nintendo total control over their licences on all Philips-produced machines.Kutaragi and Nobuyuki Idei, Sony's director of public relations at the time, learned of Nintendo's actions two days before the CES was due to begin.
1878	Recent consoles like the Atari Jaguar and 3DO suffered low sales due to a lack of developer support, prompting Sony to redouble their efforts in gaining the endorsement of arcade-savvy developers.
1879	Despite the inherent flexibility, some developers found themselves restricted due to the console's lack of RAM.
1880	The placement of the laser unit close to the power supply accelerates wear, due to the additional heat, which makes the plastic more vulnerable to friction.
1881	Eventually, one side of the lens sled will become so worn that the laser can tilt, no longer pointing directly at the CD; after this, games will no longer load due to data read errors.
1882	Sony later switched to the jewel case format typically used for audio CDs and Japanese video games, as this format took up less retailer shelf space (which was at a premium due to the large number of PlayStation games being released), and focus testing showed that most consumers preferred this format.In a 1997 year-end review, a team of five Electronic Gaming Monthly editors gave the PlayStation scores of 9.5, 8.5, 9.0, 9.0, and 9.5for all five editors, the highest score they gave to any of the five consoles reviewed in the issue.
1883	They lauded the breadth and quality of the games library, saying it had vastly improved over previous years due to developers mastering the system's capabilities in addition to Sony revising its stance on 2D and role playing games.
1884	It additionally has access to both Fire and Ground attacks.Its Partner Skill allows the Necromus to be ridden as a mount and it can perform a double jump when doing so.
1885	Arguably the Paladius is the best mount in Palworld due to its triple jump ability, making traversal much easier across the game's expansive map.The Paladius is also one of a kind and can perform both Ice and Neutral attacks.
1886	This makes it versatile and fluid in combat while delivering some seriously strong Ground damage.The Jormuntide deserves a high place in this list due to the fact it is both the best Water Pal in Palworld, has the best Watering skill in the game and is also one of the fastest mounts you can get, capable of carrying players across bodies of water without depleting stamina.The multi-purpose nature of the Jormuntide does not subtract from its ferociousness in combat.
1887	This attack, Fire Ball, does what it says on the tin and summons a large ball of fire to haul at foes.Not only is the Jetragon the fastest flying mount in the game, but whilst in the air, you can fire missiles from its back.
1888	If you have just begun your Palworld journey, try our guide to the best starter Pals or see our Pal locations guide for a thorough rundown of where you can find each of the entries on our list.Rock Paper Shotgun is the home of PC gaming Sign in and join us on our journey to discover strange and compelling PC games.Palworld Xbox Series X/S,PC Kiera Mills Guides Writer Kiera is a Guides Writer who loves the best of most genres including horror, cosy games, survival crafting and Soulslikes.
1889	He noted that "nowhere else in the world are simulations as successful as here at home.
1890	Factor 5 had been concentrating on the Star Wars: Rogue Squadron series of video games from 1999 until 2003, and released Lair, an action game for the PlayStation 3, in 2007.Ascaron produced the Elite homage Darkstar One, and continued to produce the popular Anstoss (lit.
1891	Some German-developed titles in this genre, such as 1602 A.D. and its sequels, and The Patrician, have also been successful abroad.Vehicle simulator games are also very popular in Germany.
1892	Many add-on developers for established simulator franchises, including Train Simulator and Microsoft Flight Simulator, are based in Germany, with one of the most popular, Aerosoft, being based in North Rhine-Westphalia.First-person shooters have also been traditionally quite popular in recent years, and there has been considerable debate about and censorship of the violent content of many such games.
1893	Consequently these games, especially uncut versions, became highly coveted in gaming circles for many years (though the modern Internet and VPNs allow players virtually anywhere to obtain a game from, or play on a server hosted in, virtually any other jurisdiction today).From 2002 to 2008 the main video game trade fair in Germany was the Games Convention which was held annually in Leipzig, and was highly recognized by the press.
1894	Since 2009 it was discontinued, as the Gamescom in Cologne took the place of the major video game trade fair in the world.Violence in video games is a controversial subject in Germany, and German localisations of violent games are often heavily cut by the publishers to permit a public release.
1895	The compulsory nature of the USK label was a consequence of the 2003 modification of the Jugendschutzgesetz or youth protection law.
1896	If the USK has not issued a label, a game may be placed upon the "index" of media harmful to youth kept by the BPjM (Federal Department for Media Harmful to Young Persons).
1897	This results, at least, in a ban on promoting the game in any way and strict requirements for age checks.
1898	The strict requirements for age checks frequently lead to a game being taken off the market entirely, or only being made available in a cut version even for adults, due to economic considerations by Independently, courts may also issue confiscation orders against games deemed to be especially egregious, resulting in an outright ban.The 2003 changes to the Jugendschutzgesetz also announced an intent to extend the restrictions on the depiction of violence in video games, leaving open the possibility of banning any depiction of violence in video games, which was met by widespread outcry from the video game community in Germany.
1899	The then in power CDU/SPD coalition government announced an intention to enact this in 2005, but in November 2006 such restrictions were not enacted at that time.
1900	A social network game (sometimes simply referred to as a social media game, social gaming, or online social game) is a type of online game that is played through social networks or social media.
1901	Social network games were originally implemented as browser games.
1902	While they share many aspects of traditional video games, social network games often employ additional ones that make them distinct.
1903	Traditionally they are oriented to be social games and casual games.The first cross-platform social network game was developed in 2011 by a Finnish company Star Arcade.
1904	Social network games are amongst the most popular games played in the world, with several products with tens of millions of players.
1905	FarmVille, Mafia Wars, Kantai Collection, and The Sims Social are more recent examples of popular social network game.Major companies that made or published social network games include Zynga, Wooga and Bigpoint Games.As of 2010, it was reported that 55 percent of the social network gaming demographic in the United States consisted of women while in the United Kingdom, women made up nearly 60 percent of the demographic.
1906	In addition, most social gamers were around the 30 to 59 age range, with the average social gamer being 43 years old.Social gaming may appeal more to the older demographic because it is free, easier to advance through in a short period of time, does not involve as much violence as traditional video games, and is easier to grasp.Other games target certain demographics that use social media, such as Pot Farm creating a community by involving elements of cannabis subculture in its gameplay.A social network video game is a client-server application.The client in the web era was implemented with a mix of web technologies like Flash, HTML5, PHP and JavaScript.
1907	When mobile games moved to mobile, social game front ends were developed using mobile platform technologies like Java, Objective-C, Swift and C++.The back-end was a mix of programming languages and systems including PHP, Ruby, C++ and go.Where social network video games diverged from traditional game development was the combination of real-time analytics, to continuously optimize game mechanics to drive growth, revenue and engagement.The following table outlines common characteristics of social games, mentioned by Bjrk at the 2010 GCO Games Convention Online:Information regarding players' game instances are publicly available Game state is independent from individual players' game and play sessions Game time progresses according to real time, but in discrete steps Game play events initiated by specific real time events occurring Rules of a game instance change as gameplay takes place Players are encouraged to return frequently to a certain part of game space The need to perform a certain task considered easy repeatedly Designed support to handle players entering and leaving ongoing game sessions Parts of the game space that only a single player can manipulate directly Games making use of other players' game instances to provide input to the game state Changing or rearranging game elements to form more complex structures The management of game resources for its own sake Temporary access to other players' private game spaces Actions that have only explicit benefits for somebody else than is performing the action Players can receive help in games by actions from those not playing The use of inviting new players to a game as game actions Game events are broadcast in a medium where others can perceive them Compound actions that require several players to perform actions Players perform actions to help others under the assumption that they later will be helped in return Trying to influence another placer's actions based upon moral grounds Players can pay real currency to gain some in-game advantage Some actions within a game has pre-defined effects outside the game system A social network game may employ any of the following features:Since social network games are often less challenging than console games and they have relatively shorter game play, they use different techniques to stretch game play and tools to retain users.Continuous goals: The games assign specific goals for users to achieve.
1908	As they advance in the game, the goals become more challenging and time-consuming.
1909	Every action will translate towards a certain goal that will be used to attain higher gaming capitals.Gaming capitals: Players are encouraged to earn different badges, trophies, and accolades that indicate their progress and accomplishments.
1910	By accumulating gaming capitals, they provide an intrinsic benefit to gamers as there is an avenue to boost their accomplishment and showcase their expertise of the game.
1911	Gamers are forced to wait and return after their energy replenishes to continue playing.Social network games frequently monetize based on virtual good transactions, but other games are emerging that utilize newer economic models.
1912	They tend to be higher-priced, either by CPMs ($35+ CPM in social games) or According to studies, video ads result in highest brand recall thus a good return on investment for advertisers.Video ads are shown either in in-game interstitials (e.g.
1913	They return with this to the surface and order is restored to Llylgamyn.Wizardry V's design was based on a game that Bradley had previously written and pitched to Sir-Tech.
1914	Designers optimize user experience through additional gameplay, missions, and quests, without having to worry about overhead or unused stock.The following are common ways of advertising in social network games:As banner ads within social networks tend to be where ad response is low, they tend to be priced at CPMs of around $2.
1915	However, because social games generate so many page views, they are the biggest part of advertising revenue for the social gaming industry.Videos are the ad format with the most revenue per view.
1916	For example, in a game where you run a restaurant, you might be asked to collect ingredients to make a Starbucks Frappuccino, and receive in-game rewards for doing so.As these product placement deals are non-standard, they are largely charged with a production fee, which can be $350,000 to $750,000 depending on the type of placement and the popularity of the game.Another form of advertising that is prevalent in many social games are lead generation offers.
1917	In this form of advertising, companies, usually from different industries, aim to convince players to sign up for their goods or services and in exchange, players will receive virtual gifts or advance in the game as a reward.Applications that are built once, then individualized and licensed again and again.
1918	The community also evolved and spawned similar games, garnered critical reviews and even gained a strategy guide.In a study by Bitdefender, it was shown that social games increase spam and phishing by 50 percent in social media platforms.
1919	Several policymakers from various Belgium, Spain, and the United Kingdomhave shown concern about the potential and negative impact these games could cause.
1920	This is made possible through hackers creating fake profiles and relying on bots to send spam messages to other users via social gaming applications.
1921	Many of these users who receive the messages willingly add the spammers' fake profiles into their circle of friends to depend on them for additional gaming support.
1922	By entering the PIN into the site, they are subscribed to some servicesuch as ones that provide horoscope forecastsare charged for it, and may not be aware of it unless they have carefully read the fine print.Some critics have also claimed that social networking games have caused the numbers of fake profiles to rise.
1923	Creating a fake profile can be advantageous if the game, for example, offers rewards whenever a user introduces the game to their friends.
1924	By inviting the fake profile to play the game, the user can trick the games' point-based system into thinking that they are actually helping the game gain popularity and in return, they may receive rewards from the game.
1925	Social networking sites such as Facebook eliminates fake profiles if and only if these profiles are reported by other users.One of the more popular genres to social games are those that imitate gambling activities which are free to play and easily accessible through a social network.
1926	The spammer's action here, however, does not constitute as abuse since it is typically the user who adds the spammer on their end.
1927	As such, the spammer's account cannot be suspended by a social network.Social networking gamers are also susceptible to unwanted charges.
1928	This year's highest grossing video game worldwide was Capcom's arcade fighting game Street Fighter II for the third year in a row, while again being the year's highest grossing entertainment product.
1929	The best selling home system around the globe was the Nintendo Super Famicom/SNES video game console.The following titles won Game of the Year awards for 1993.The following video game releases in 1993 entered Famitsu magazine's "Platinum Hall of Fame" for receiving Famitsu scores of at least 35 out of 40.Street Fighter II was the highest-grossing entertainment product of 1993, earning more than the film Jurassic Park.
1930	The following table lists the year's top-grossing arcade games in Japan, the United Kingdom, United States, and worldwide.The following titles were the top ten highest-grossing arcade games of 1993 in Japan.In the United States, NBA Jam was the highest-grossing arcade game of 1993, followed by Mortal Kombat; both games exceeded the $300,000,000 (equivalent to $610,000,000 in 2022) domestic box office gross of Jurassic Park that year.The following titles were the highest-grossing arcade video games of the year, according to the Amusement & Music Operators Association (AMOA) and American Amusement Machine Association (AAMA).The following titles were the top ten best-selling home video games (console games or computer games) of 1993 with known sales figures.In Japan, the following titles were the top ten best-selling home video games of 1993.In Europe, the following titles were the top two best-selling 1993 releases during the first quarter of the year.In the United Kingdom, the following titles were the top ten best-selling home video games of 1993.In the United States, the following titles were the top two highest-grossing home video game franchises in 1993.The following titles were the best-selling home video games of each month for video game consoles (home consoles and handheld consoles) in 1993, according to Babbage's (reported by Electronic Gaming Monthly and Electronic Games), Mega (for the Sega Genesis in January), and The NPD Group (for the Super NES and Genesis in July).The following titles were the year's top six best-selling PC games on CD-ROM format in the United States.
1931	It was built upon the functionality of the cartridge-based SNES by adding support for a CD-ROM-based format known as Super Disc.The SNES-CD was developed in a joint venture between Nintendo and Sony.
1932	The involvement of SMEJ proved crucial to the PlayStation's early development as the process of manufacturing games on CD-ROM format was similar to that used for audio CDs, with which Sony's music division had considerable experience.
1933	Maruyama claimed that Sony further wanted to emphasize the new console's ability to utilize redbook audio from the CD-ROM format in its games alongside high quality visuals and gameplay.Wishing to distance the project from the failed enterprise with Nintendo, Sony initially branded the PlayStation the "PlayStation X" (PSX).
1934	Another strategy that helped attract software developers was the PlayStation's use of the CD-ROM format instead of traditional cartridges.
1935	The first PlayStation console became the chief competitor of Nintendo's next console, the Nintendo 64.Sony engineer Ken Kutaragi became interested in working with video games after seeing his daughter play games on Nintendo's Famicom video game console.
1936	By the next year, upon Kutaragi's suggestions, Sony had dropped further development of the Super NES CD-ROM to develop its own console for the next generation, the In July 2015, it was reported that one of the original Nintendo PlayStation prototypes had been found.
1937	Sony meanwhile entered a short-lived alliance with Sega of America, where it was agreed that both companies would share all costs and risk for the new CD-ROM drive, and ultimately the next generation console.
1938	Kutaragi however became emboldened enough from his experiences working with Nintendo and Sega that Sony could go it alone from scratch, and broke away from Nintendo to develop their own next generation console.
1939	He took on a contract at Sony for developing the S-SMP audio chip of Nintendo's next console, the Super NES.
1940	Nintendo president Hiroshi Yamauchi was already wary of Sony at this point and deemed it unacceptable, because Sony was the sole provider of the S-SMP audio chip in the SNES and required developers to buy its expensive and proprietary audio development tool.
1941	Nintendo had become suspicious of Sony's growth, because of the combination of the audio chip, Sony's PlayStation hybrid console, and Sony's rapid expansion beyond its electronics origins into music, movies, and most recently software.
1942	The system was later confirmed as operational and the unit plays Super Famicom cartridges and its test cartridge, although the audio output and CD drive were non-functional.
1943	Heckendorn provided a tear-down video of the system, through which he identified faults in several on-board components that he subsequently replaced, which resulted in fixing the audio and CD drive issues indirectly.
1944	Heckendorn showed audio CDs working on the system, because there were no known game CDs, but affirmed that homebrew games worked.The prototype was auctioned by Diebold in February 2020, with an initial price of US$15,000, but the auction quickly exceeded $350,000 within two days.
1945	Kutaragi secretly developed the chip, the Sony SPC 700.
1946	The game was followed up with two expansions, Half-Life: Opposing Force and Half-Life: Blue Shift, both of which ran GoldSrc and were developed by Gearbox Software.
1947	Half-Life: Decay was the final iteration in the Half-Life series to run on GoldSrc, with all future entries in the series using the Source and Source 2 engines.Valve developed several games using the GoldSrc engine, many of which were based on original user-made modifications.
1948	Valve's Team Fortress Classic, released in 1999, was developed primarily by two of the developers of the Quake mod Team Fortress.
1949	Rewolf Software used the engine for the game Gunman Chronicles in 2000, and the PC version of James Bond 007: Nightfire was developed by Gearbox Software using a modified version of GoldSrc in 2002.Unofficial, community-made modifications of GoldSrc have also been produced.
1950	Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 is a 2000 skateboarding video game developed by Neversoft and published by Activision.
1951	In October 2001, Activision acquired Treyarch preceding the release of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2x.The original version of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 was developed for the PlayStation by Neversoft and was released in North America and Europe in September 2000.
1952	Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2's Nintendo 64 version was developed by Edge of Reality, who developed the Nintendo 64 port of the original Pro Skater, and was released in the United States on August and in Europe in October 2001.
1953	The success of the project spurred Kutaragi, who believed CD-ROMs would overtake cartridges, to propose a CD-ROM drive for the Super NES.
1954	Nintendo disagreed, believing that CD-ROMs were too slow, but agreed to allow Sony to design the add-on after Kutaragi claimed the drive would be used for everything but games.
1955	Under their agreement, Sony would develop and retain control over the Super Disc format, with Nintendo thus effectively ceding a large amount of control of software licensing to Sony.
1956	Further, Sony would also be the sole benefactor of licensing related to music and movies software that it had been aggressively pursuing as a secondary application.
1957	Nintendo suspected that it had become a prop in Sony's console ambitions.Furthermore, Yamauchi started to see a more favorable partner in Philips, one of Sony's largest competitors.
1958	In March 2016, retro-gaming website RetroCollect reported that it (and influential members of online emulation communities) had received (from an anonymous source) a functional disc boot ROM for the SNES-CD.Diebold had given the unit to hardware hacker Benjamin Heckendorn, to examine around 2017.
1959	Nintendo cartridges were expensive to manufacture, and the company controlled all production, prioritizing its own games, while inexpensive compact disc manufacturing occurred at dozens of locations around the world.The PlayStation's architecture and interconnectability with PCs was beneficial to many software developers.
1960	Like most CD players, the PlayStation can play songs in a programmed order, shuffle the playback order of the disc and repeat one song or the entire disc.
1961	were subsequently forced to shut down in November 2001.Sony was aware that using CDs for game distribution could have left games vulnerable to piracy, due to the growing popularity of CD-R and optical disc drives with burning capability.
1962	To preclude illegal copying, a proprietary process for PlayStation disc manufacturing was developed that, in conjunction with an augmented optical drive in Tiger H/E assembly, prevented burned copies of games from booting on an unmodified console.
1963	Consoles would not boot game discs without a specific wobble frequency contained in the data of the disc pregap sector (the same system was also used to encode discs' regional lock-outs).
1964	This signal was within Red Book CD tolerances, so PlayStation discs' actual content could still be read by a conventional disc drive; however, the disc drive could not detect the wobble frequency (therefore duplicating the discs omitting it), since the laser pickup system of any optical disc drive would interpret this wobble as an oscillation of the disc surface and compensate for it in the reading process.As the disc authenticity was only verified during booting, this copy protection system could be circumvented by swapping any genuine disc with the copied disc, while modchips could remove the protection system altogether by tricking the console into thinking the wobble is there on the pirated disc.
1965	While not the first system to use an optical disc format, it was the first highly successful one, and ended up going head-to-head with the proprietary cartridge-relying Nintendo 64, which the industry had expected to use CDs like PlayStation.
1966	It was sold for $360,000 to Greg McLemore, an entrepreneur and founder of Pets.com, who has a large collection of other video game hardware and plans to establish a permanent museum for this type of hardware.Heckendorn's July 2016 teardown video provides technical specifications of the prototype.
1967	It resulted in more powerful hardware specifications.
1968	GoldSrc (pronounced "gold source"), sometimes called the Half-Life Engine, is a proprietary game engine developed by Valve.
1969	It made its debut in 1998 with Half-Life and powered future games developed by or with oversight from Valve, including Half-Life's expansions, Day of Defeat and games in the Counter-Strike series.GoldSrc was succeeded by the Source engine with the releases of Half-Life: Source, Half-Life 2, and Counter-Strike: Source in 2004.The basis of GoldSrc is the engine used in the video game Quake, albeit with heavy modification by Valve.
1970	While the engine served as the basis for GoldSrc, Gabe Newell said that a majority of the code used in the engine was created by Valve.
1971	The engine also uses some code from other games in the Quake series, including QuakeWorld and Quake II.In 1997, Valve hired Ben Morris and acquired .mw-parser-output a tool for creating custom Quake maps.
1972	The engine supports skeletal animation, which allowed for more realistic body kinematics and facial expression animations than most other engines at the time of release.The GoldSrc engine initially had no real name and was simply called the Half-Life engine.
1973	When the need arose for Valve to work on the engine without risking introducing bugs into Half-Life's codebase, Valve forked the code, creating two main engine branches: one gold master branch, "GoldSrc", and the other "Src".
1974	Internally, any games using the original branch were referred to as "Goldsource" to differentiate it from the second branch, while the "Src" branch evolved into the Source engine.Valve released versions of the GoldSrc engine for OS X and Linux in 2013, eventually porting all of their first-party games using the engine to the platforms by the end of the year.Half-Life was Valve's debut title and the first to use GoldSrc.
1975	Although Valve's further installments in the series starting with Counter-Strike: Source use the newer Source engine instead, Counter-Strike Online and Counter-Strike Nexon: Zombies, two spinoff titles released by Nexon in 2008 and 2014 respectively, use GoldSrc as their basis.The GoldSrc engine was also used for a variety of third-party games and modifications not directly developed by Valve.
1976	At its core, GoldSrc is a heavily modified version of id Software's Quake engine.
1977	Unlike other games in the series, it never received an official version for Windows, however an unofficial version of the game was released by independent developers in 2008.
1978	A reworked port of the game was released for the Famicom a few months later, which later saw release in international markets for the NES over the following two years; this version was developed without Kojima's involvement and features drastically altered level designs, among other changes.
1979	An emulated Famicom version came with the special edition of Metal Gear Solid: The Twin Snakes on GameCube.
1980	A more faithful port of the MSX2 version was later included in Metal Gear Solid 3: Subsistence for the PlayStation 2, as well as in the HD Edition of the same game released for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and PlayStation Vita, with these newer ports featuring a revised translation and additional gameplay features.
1981	The MSX version was also released for Wii Virtual Console and PC.Players control Solid Snake, an operative of the special forces unit FOXHOUND, who goes on a solo infiltration mission into the fortified state of Outer Heaven to destroy Metal Gear, a bipedal walking tank capable of launching nuclear missiles from anywhere in the world, as well as rescue a number of fellow agents who have been captured by the enemy.
1982	The game was a major international success, with the NES version selling 1million units in the United States.The player controls a military operative codenamed Solid Snake, whose objective is to infiltrate the enemy's base while avoiding visual contact and direct confrontation with patrolling guards.
1983	The player must keep track of each character's frequency number in order to remain in contact with them throughout the game.The MSX2 version requires the use of a tape drive (such as the Sony Bitcorder) in order to save and load game progress from checkpoints.
1984	The tool was renamed Valve Hammer Editor and became the official mapping tool for GoldSrc.
1985	Half-Life: Decay, an expansion pack for Half-Life only released on PlayStation 2, was released in 2001 alongside Half-Life's debut on the platform.
1986	Counter-Strike evolved into its own series with the debut of the Japanese arcade game Counter-Strike Neo in 2003 and Valve's own follow-up in 2004, Counter-Strike: Condition Zero, both of which run on the GoldSrc engine.
1987	Counter-Strike and Day of Defeat were also originally Half-Life modifications that Valve purchased the rights to and re-released as standalone titles.
1988	Sven Co-op have since been released for free as a standalone game on Steam, which use a licensed derivative of the engine with their own customizations.
1989	However, there have also been questions whether it is a true genre or a collection of shared mechanics.While the description is typically applied to action role-playing games, the core concepts of high difficulty, repeated character death driving player knowledge and mastery of the game world, sparsity of save points, and giving information to the player through indirect, environmental storytelling are sometimes seen in games in very different genres, the mechanics of which are sometimes described as Soulslike.Soulslike games typically have a high level of difficulty where repeated player character death is expected and incorporated as part of the gameplay and also losing all progress if certain checkpoints have not been reached.
1990	Similar death mechanics are used in Nier: Automata (2017), Hollow Knight (2017), and Fear & Hunger (2018).Interviews with developers of Soulslike games revealed that they all thought of being classified as part of the genre as a positive thing that functioned as a useful description for players.
1991	The need for repeated playthroughs can be viewed as a type of self-improvement for the player, either through gradual improvement of their character, or improving their own skills and strategies within the game.
1992	Salt and Sanctuary developer James Silva said Soulslike games provided "deliberate and meaningful exploration" of the entire game, including the game world, character improvement, and combat, through learning by repeated failures.
1993	Souls and its related games developed by FromSoftware include multiplayer features such as the ability to write messages that can be seen and rated by other players, apparitions of other players, blood stains that allow viewing of other players' deaths, invasion of other players' worlds, and summoning of other players to one's own world for needed] Many Soulslike games include the concept of a bonfire which acts as a checkpoint.
1994	Saying that failure is redundant in games with autosave systems, he opined that Dark Souls "reinvented the save point", comparing reaching the next bonfire to receiving a badge of honor, and remarking that the Bonfire was a "central character" of the games as much as any NPC or monster.Robert Zak of Kotaku praised the concept, saying that describing them as a "checkpoint" did not do the idea justice.
1995	He stated his opinion that, once the player lights a bonfire in Dark Souls, there is nowhere to go but forward, making it the "ultimate tension-building device".
1996	As introduced in Dark Souls, bonfires are small campfires of bones marked by a coiled sword, but may be contextualized differently in other games.Activating a bonfire sets it as a respawn point for the player character should they die.
1997	Some bonfires can be used to level up and perform other actions such as repairing weapons.
1998	Players can also generally warp or fast travel between all bonfires discovered in the game world.Bonfires were designed by Dark Souls director Hidetaka Miyazaki, saying that they were the single addition he was most excited about in the transition from Demon's Souls to its sequel.
1999	It was also designed to be a "place of warmth", and one of the few "heartwarming" locations in the game's world, expressing the feeling of dark fantasy that he was trying to create.Since the introduction of the bonfires in Dark Souls, many games have adopted similar progression mechanics; serving either as a reset, leveling, or traveling beacon in games.
2000	Serving as both a recovery and respawn point, Bonfires were designed to be a "powerful" aspect of gameplay and a place where players could gather together to share experiences and emotionally communicate.
2001	Players are meant to discover bits and pieces of the game's lore over time via environmental storytelling, item descriptions and cryptic dialogue, piecing it together themselves to increase the game's sense of mystery.
2002	Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, also directed by Hidetaka Miyazaki, is sometimes considered a Soulsborne game due to its similar design and shared mechanics, but differs in its setting and role-playing elements.Other notable Soulslike games include Lords of the Fallen (2014), Titan Souls (2015), DarkMaus (2016), Salt and Sanctuary (2016), the Nioh series, The Surge series, Darksiders III (2018), Ashen (2018), Dark Devotion (2019), Remnant: From the Ashes (2019) and Remnant 2 (2023), Code Vein (2019), Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order (2019), Hellpoint (2020), Mortal Shell (2020), Chronos: Before the Ashes (2020), Stranger of Paradise: Final Fantasy Origin (2022), Lies of P (2023), and Lords of the Fallen (2023).Other games outside of the genre cited to have been influenced by the Souls series include The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings (2011), Journey (2012), Shovel Knight (2014), Destiny (2014), The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt (2015), God of War (2018), Assassin's Creed Odyssey (2018), Dead Cells (2018), Death's Gambit (2018), and Blasphemous (2019).
2003	An example of this was players being disappointed that Remnant: From the Ashes was primarily a shooter, despite being characterized as a Soulslike.Austin Wood of PC Gamer criticized the Soulslike label, saying that treating Souls games as a template "misleads" players into believing that various games classified as such are similar to Souls when they are really different.
2004	He said that while other games evoke similar emotions with their save points, such as Resident Evil's save rooms, no other game does so as effectively.
2005	Author M. J. Toswell described Bonfires in Dark Souls as evoking Samhain imagery, similar to the festival of Bonfire Night.
2006	In responding to this argument, Bruno Dias of Vice disagreed, saying that Brown's comparison of Soulslikes with roguelikes was not apt because roguelikes were a hobbyist pursuit for a long time.
2007	He also stated his belief that different types of Bonfires evoke different emotions - welcoming for Bonfires at the start of areas, numb for Bonfires after bosses and great relief for Bonfires at the end of difficult levels.
2008	Kat Bailey of VG247 called Dark Souls Bonfires a signifier of solitude, rather than companionship, like most campfires would be, but, despite that, also a symbol of warmth and safety.
2009	She remarked that other games had borrowed this imagery, singling out Shovel Knight as a particular example, despite the reluctance of Yacht Club Games to acknowledge the connection.The lack of fast travel for a significant portion of the first Dark Souls has been particularly noted as giving the Bonfires of that game outsized significance.
2010	The lack of fast travel gives the player more motivation to "push on", instead of thinking of Majula and Firelink as merely "pitstops".
2011	The method of escaping varies depending on the circumstances behind discovery:Snake starts his mission unarmed, but can arm himself with numerous firearms and explosives that can be obtained throughout the enemy's stronghold.
2012	Big Boss begins to act strangely, giving misleading advice that leads Snake into several traps, and eventually ordering him to abort the mission (breaking the fourth wall by telling the player to turn off the system).
2013	A suppressor can be obtained that allows the player to fire the handgun and submachine gun without making a noise.
2014	In addition to enemy guards, the player will be confronted by mercenaries who will challenge the player to combat, serving as the boss characters.The enemy base consists of three different buildings, with multiple floors (including basement levels) within them.
2015	He is assisted via radio by his commanding officer Big Boss, who offers information about mission objectives and items; as well as a local Resistance movement composed of leader Schneider, a former architect who guides Snake through the layout of the fortress and knows the locations of key items; Diane, a former positive punk vocalist who provides information on the enemy forces from her home; and Jennifer, who infiltrated Outer Heaven's medical staff to find her missing brother and assists Snake as an inside agent.
2016	Among the prisoners Snake rescues includes Grey Fox (Gray Fox in the later versions), a FOXHOUND agent who was captured during a previous mission; Dr. Pettrovich (Dr. Drago Pettrovich Madnar in later releases), a robotic engineer who is working for Outer Heaven against his will; and the doctor's daughter, Elen, who was kidnapped by the enemy to coerce her father into developing Metal Gear.The bosses include Shoot Gunner (renamed Shotmaker in later versions), a former Spetsnaz agent specializing in the riot gun; Machinegun Kid, a former SAS operative armed with a machine gun; Fire Trooper, a former GSG 9 operative who uses a flamethrower; Coward Duck (Dirty Duck in later releases), a boomerang throwing terrorist who shields himself with hostages; Arnold (Bloody Brad in later releases), two TX-11 class androids designed by Dr. Pettrovich; and the legendary mercenary who founded Outer Heaven, whose true identity is unknown until the end.Near the end of the 20th century, the West discovers that a weapon of mass destruction is being constructed inside Outer Heaven, a fortified state founded by a "legendary mercenary" 200km north of Galzburg, South Africa.
2017	Inspired by The Great Escape, Kojima reversed the focus of the gameplay from shooting down the enemy to avoiding capture.
2018	Kojima designed the game so that, when Snake is discovered, the gameplay changed to become a puzzle video game "like Pac-Man" (1980) where the enemy guards behave like Pac-Man ghosts that Snake needs to avoid.The game was titled Intruder during the early planning stages.
2019	Due to hardware limitations with the mapper used, the Metal Gear boss ended up being replaced by a Supercomputer guarded by four enemy soldiers.Another big change made to the game was in the level designs.
2020	When Snake is killed by the enemy or loses his life by certain other means, the player is given a choice to continue the game from the last checkpoint or quit and resume later with the given passcode.
2021	Information can be obtained by rescuing hostages being held within the buildings.
2022	The passcode keeps track of Snake's rank (which determines his checkpoint in this version), inventory, hostages rescued, bosses defeated and certain event flags.
2023	Versions on later platforms eliminated these complicated requirements thanks to standardized storage devices such as memory cards and internal disk drives.Metal Gear takes place in 1995  while not defined in the Japanese MSX2 version of the game, which referred to the year as "19XX", the release of Metal Gear Solid established the date within its narrative.
2024	The game forms the first entry in an overarching plot concerning the character of Solid Snake, with the origins of the game's plot being later explored in 2015's Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain.The player's character is Solid Snake, a rookie member of the special forces group FOXHOUND sent on his first mission.
2025	The ROM used for this emulated re-release has been modified to bring it more in line with the later versions of the game released for other platforms.
2026	As he safely escapes the compound's basement, he is confronted by the mercenary leader of Outer Heaven, who turns out to be Big Boss.
2027	The corrupt leader reveals that he had been using his connections to steal military intelligence, establish his own mercenary force, and fund his activities.
2028	The player can use other transport trucks to reach the entrances of the other buildings quicker, since they travel in a cyclical pattern.
2029	In addition to the removal of the Metal Gear tank, the Hind D boss on the rooftop of Building 1 was replaced by a pair of armed turret gunners called "Twin Shot".
2030	One particular passcode featured in the Japanese and North American version, in which the player types the expletive "fuck me" and fills the remaining spaces with "1", will transport the player to the final battle with no equipment.
2031	This resulted in the passcode system being altered for the European versions of the game, with all of the vowels being removed.Because the MSX2 version was not released in North America at the time, the NES version was the one that served as the basis for a couple of home computer ports released by Ultra Games in 1990 for the Commodore 64 and MS-DOS.
2032	The latter was followed by Metal Gear Solid for the PlayStation in 1998, which was in turn followed by numerous sequels and spinoffs in Metal Gear series.The intro theme ("Operation Intrude N313"), main theme ("Theme of Tara") and game over theme ("Just Another Dead Soldier") from the MSX2 version were reused for the VR Training theme in Metal Gear Solid, which in turn was reused in Metal Gear: Ghost Babel and Metal Gear Solid 2: Substance.
2033	"Theme of Tara" is one of the tunes that can be heard in the "Shadow Moses Island" stage in Super Smash Bros. Brawl for the Wii, the music for the beginning section of the Battleship Halberd Interior stage of the Adventure mode, where Snake officially enters the storyline, and can also be selected as music with an iPod item in Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots.In 1988, Konami published a gamebook adaptation of Metal Gear in Japan as the second installment in their Konami Gamebook Series.
2034	The gamebook is set two years after the events of the game, in which Solid Snake is called back into action after FOXHOUND receives intelligence on a terrorist group who have obtained the plans for Metal Gear and are now mass-producing the mech.
2035	The book portrays Solid Snake as an unsuccessful illustrator in his personal life outside his job as a FOXHOUND agent.In 1990, a novelization of Metal Gear was published in the U.S. by Scholastic Books as part of their Worlds of Power series of novelizations based on third-party NES games.
2036	The Metal Gear book was written by Alexander Frost under the pen name F.X.
2037	This book adheres much more closely to the localized version of the backstory as presented in the North American packaging and manual, as opposed to the actual in-game plot which was not changed to reflect this difference.
2038	The book also gives Solid Snake the identity of Justin Halley and changes the name of his organization from FOX HOUND to the Snake Men.
2039	Because the book was targeted at young kids, the cover illustration was altered, with Snake's handgun being airbrushed out.During a public Q&A event conducted at London with Geoff Keighley on March 13, 2014, series' creator Hideo Kojima expressed interest in developing remakes of the MSX2 Metal Gear games in order to reconcile plot discrepancies that have since been introduced into the series, but had no plans at the time due to the ongoing development of Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain (itself a prequel set before the events of the original Metal Gear).
2040	The five sons of the family  Christian, Claude, Grard, Michel, and Yves  helped with the company's sales, distribution, accounting, and management with their parents before university.
2041	The team considered Ancel's management style to be abusive, having dismissed some of their work and forcing them to restart on development pathways.
2042	The brothers came up with the idea of diversification to sell other products of use to farmers; Claude began with selling CD audio media.
2043	Later, the brothers expanded to computers and additional software that included video games.
2044	In 1985, the brothers established Guillemot Corporation for similar distribution of computer hardware.
2045	As demand continued, the brothers recognised that video game software was becoming a lucrative property and decided that they needed to get into the industry's development side, already having insight on the publication and distribution side.
2046	Ubi Soft (formally named Ubi Soft Entertainment S.A.) was founded by the brothers on 28 March 1986.
2047	The brothers used the chateau in Brittany as the primary space for development, hoping the setting would lure developers, as well as to have a better way to manage expectations of their developers.
2048	The Guillemot brothers told Ancel to keep them abreast of anything he might come up with there.
2049	Within 2 years, the company established worldwide studios in Annecy (1996), Shanghai (1996), Montreal (1997), and Milan (1998).A difficulty that the brothers found was the lack of an intellectual property that would have a foothold in the United States market.
2050	Their mother said they could start their own business this way as long as they managed it themselves and equally split its shares among the five of them.
2051	EA's CEO at the time, John Riccitiello, assured Ubisoft the purchase was not meant as a hostile manoeuvre, and EA ended up selling the shares in 2010.In February 2005, Ubisoft acquired the NHL Rivals, NFL Fever, NBA Inside Drive and MLB Inside Pitch franchises from Microsoft Game Studios.Ubisoft established another IP, Assassin's Creed, first launched in 2007; Assassin's Creed was originally developed by Ubisoft Montreal as a sequel to Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time and instead transitioned to a story about Assassins and the Templar Knights.
2052	Vivendi, in two actions during October 2015, bought shares in Ubisoft stock, giving them a 10.4% stake in Ubisoft, an action that Yves Guillemot considered "unwelcome" and feared a hostile takeover.
2053	In the following February, Vivendi acquired 500million worth of shares in Gameloft, gaining more than 30% of the shares and requiring the company under French law to make a public tender offer; this action enabled Vivendi to complete the takeover of Gameloft by June 2016.
2054	By June 2016, Vivendi had increased its shares to 20.1% and denied it was in the process of a takeover.By the time of Ubisoft's annual board meeting in September 2016, Vivendi had gained 23% of the shares, while the Guillemots were able to increase their voting share to 20%.
2055	The Guillemots argued against this, reiterating that Vivendi should be seen as a competitor, and succeeded in swaying other voting members to deny any board seats to Vivendi.Vivendi continued to buy shares in Ubisoft, approaching the 30% mark that could trigger a takeover; as of December 2016, Vivendi held a 25.15% stake in Ubisoft.
2056	Reuters reported in April 2017 that Vivendi's takeover of Ubisoft would likely happen that year and Bloomberg Businessweek observed that some of Vivendi's shares would reach the 2-year holding mark, which would grant them double voting power, and would likely meet or exceed the 30% threshold.
2057	In October 2017, Ubisoft announced it reached a deal with an "investment services provider" to help them purchase back 4million shares by the end of the year, preventing others, specifically Vivendi, from buying these.In the week before Vivendi would gain double-voting rights for previously purchased shares, the company, in quarterly results published in November 2017, announced that it had no plans to acquire Ubisoft for the next 6 months, nor would seek board positions due to the shares they held during that time, and that it "would ensure that its interest in Ubisoft would not exceed the threshold of 30% through the doubling of its voting rights."
2058	At the same time, Ubi Soft released Beyond Good & Evil, Ancel's project after Rayman; it was one of Ubi Soft's first commercial "flops" on its release but which since has gained a cult following.Around 2001, Ubi Soft established its editorial department headed by Hascot, initially named as editor in chief and later known as the company's Chief Content Officer.
2059	Until 2019, most games published by Ubisoft were reviewed through the editorial department overseen by Hascot.On 9 September 2003, Ubi Soft announced that it would change its name to Ubisoft, and introduced a new logo known as "the swirl".
2060	Ubisoft employees, in Schreier's report, said that in the following Assassin's Creed games which did feature female protagonists at release, including Assassin's Creed Syndicate and Assassin's Creed Origins, there were serious considerations of removing or downplaying the female leads from the editorial department.
2061	Hascot's behavior among other content decisions made by Hascot had "appeared to affect" the quality of Ubisoft's games by 2019; both Tom Clancy's The Division 2 and Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Breakpoint "underperformed", which gave Ubisoft justification to diminish Hascot's oversight with the aforementioned January 2020 changes in the editorial department and gave its members more autonomy.
2062	Changes in the wake of the departures included a reorganization of both the editorial team and the human resources team.
2063	Ubisoft's brothers recognised they had not considered themselves within a competitive market, and employees had feared that an EA takeover would drastically alter the environment within Ubisoft.
2064	Due to overall weak sales in 2019, Ubisoft stated in January 2020 that it would be reorganizing its editorial board to provide a more comprehensive look at its game portfolio and devise greater variation in its games which Ubisoft's management said had fallen stagnant, too uniform and had contributed to weak sales.Stemming from a wave of sexual misconduct accusations of the #MeToo movement in June and July 2020, Ubisoft had a number of employees accused of misconduct from both internal and external sources.
2065	Between Ubisoft's internal investigation and a study by the newspaper Libration, employees had been found to have records of sexual misconduct and troubling behaviour, going back up to 10 years, which had been dismissed by the human resources departments.
2066	As part of a cost reduction plan, Ubisoft reduced its number of employees from 20,279 employees in 2022, to 19,410 in September 2023.
2067	In November 2023, Ubisoft laid off 124 employees from their VFX and IT teams.Ubisoft Connect, formerly Uplay, is a digital distribution, digital rights management, multiplayer and communications service for PC created by Ubisoft.
2068	Specific accusations were made at Ubisoft Toronto where the studio co-founder Maxime Bland, also the vice president of editorial for Ubisoft as a whole, was forced to resign by Ubisoft's management due to sexual misconduct issues and led some employees working there to express strong concerns that "The way the studioHR and complaints just enables this behavior from men."
2069	A component of that workplace was from accusations related to The issues identified by Libration and corroborated by employees from other studios suggested that some of these problems had extended from the human resource heads of the company ignoring complaints made against Hascot, using sexual misconduct and harassment to intimidate those who criticized him, on the basis that the creative leads were producing valuable products for the company.
2070	Yves Guillemot temporarily filled in Hascot's former role.A following report from Bloomberg News by Jason Schreier corroborated these details, with employees of Ubisoft's main Paris headquarters comparing it to a fraternity house.
2071	In January 2013, Ubisoft acquired South Park: The Stick of Truth from THQ for $3.265million.Ubisoft announced plans in 2013 to invest $373million into its Quebec operations over 7 years.
2072	In February 2013, it began offering games from third-party publisher including Electronic Arts and Warner Bros Interactive Entertainment on its Uplay Shop and its own games to EA's Origin.In July 2013, Ubisoft announced a breach in its network resulting in the potential exposure of up to 58million accounts including usernames, email address, and encrypted passwords.
2073	The same day, Ubisoft announced a partnership with Tencent to help bring their games into the Chinese market.
2074	Later that year, the company announced it would start branding games developed by its 1st-party developers as "Ubisoft Originals".In 2021, they announced that they would be making an open world Star Wars game.
2075	Ubisoft furthermore announced its Ubisoft Quartz blockchain program in December 2021, allowing players to buy uniquely identified customization items for games and then sell and trade them based on the Tezos currency, which Ubisoft claimed was an energy efficient cryptocurrency.
2076	Ubisoft Connect was announced in October 2020 as a replacement for UPlay and its Ubisoft Club to launch on October 29, 2020 alongside Watch Dogs: Legion.
2077	On September 1, 2016, Disney announced the closure of the remaining Playdom games, Marvel: Avengers Alliance and its mobile sequel at the end of the month, effectively shuttering the studio.On November 12, 2009, Playdom acquired Green Patch and Trippert Labs.
2078	These lawsuits were finally settled in November 2010, less than 4 months after Disney's acquisition of Playdom in July 2010.On March 31, 2010, Playdom announced the acquisition of Argentina-based online game developer Three Melons for an undisclosed amount.
2079	The Guillemot family has since raised its stake in Ubisoft; as of June 2017, the family held 13.6% of Ubisoft's share capital, and 20.02% of the company's voting rights.
2080	This gave Tencent 49.9% ownership in this holding company and increased the Guillemots' share of voting rights within Ubisoft to about 30%.
2081	Yves Guillemot implemented changes in the company to address these issues as it further investigated the extent of the misconduct claims.Ubisoft stated in its end of 2020 fiscal year investor call in February 2021 that the company will start to make AAA game releases less of a focus and put more focus on mobile and freemium games following fiscal year 2022.
2082	Productions include the live-action film Assassin's Creed (2016) and the series Rabbids Invasion (2013), and Mythic Quest (2020present).From June to July 2020, a wave of sexual misconduct accusations occurred through the video game industry as part of the ongoing #MeToo Movement, including some of Ubisoft's employees.
2083	Ashraf Ismail, the creative director of Assassin's Creed: Valhalla, stepped down to deal with personal issues related to allegations made towards him; he was later terminated by Ubisoft in August 2020 after their internal Ubisoft announced two executives that were also accused of misconduct had been placed on leave, and that they were performing an internal review of other accusations and their own policies.
2084	There remained questions as to what degree CEO Yves Guillemot knew of these issues prior to their public reporting; employees reported that Hascot has been very close with the Guillemot brothers since the founding of the editorial department around 2001 and that some of the prior complaints of sexual misconduct had been reported directly to Yves and were dismissed.
2085	Guillemot sent out a company-wide letter in October 2020 summarizing their investigation, finding that nearly 25% of the employees had experienced or witnessed misconduct in the last 2 years, and that the company was implementing a 4-point plan to correct these problems, with a focus to "guarantee a working environment where everyone feels respected and safe".
2086	As part of their coverage from the sexual misconduct issues, Libration found that Ancel's attention towards Beyond Good & Evil 2 to be haphazard, which had resulted in delays and restarts since the game's 1st announcement in 2010.
2087	While the team at Ubisoft Montpellier had reported on Ancel's lack of organization and leadership on the project to management as early as 2017, Libration claimed it was his close relationship with Yves Guillemot that allowed the situation to continue until 2020 when a more indepth review of all management was performed in wake of the sexual misconduct allegations.
2088	Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot sent a letter to all Ubisoft employees in response to this open letter, stating "We have heard clearly from this letter that not everyone is confident in the processes that have been put in place to manage misconduct reports" and that "We have made important progress over the past year".
2089	Yves Guillemot stated on 2 July 2020 that he had appointed Lidwine Sauer as their head of workplace culture who is "empowered to examine all aspects of our company's culture and to suggest comprehensive changes that will benefit all of us", in addition to other internal and external programs to deal with ongoing issues that may have contributed to these problems.
2090	Tommy Franois, the vice president of editorial and creative services, had been placed on disciplinary leave around July and by August, Ubisoft announced his departure from the company.Spurred by these claims, the newspaper Libration had begun a deeper investigation into the workplace culture at Ubisoft.
2091	The paper ran a 2-part report printed on 1 and 10 July 2020 that claimed that Ubisoft had a toxic workplace culture.
2092	To encourage this, Ubisoft said it would tie the performance bonus of team leaders to how well they "create a positive and inclusive workplace environment" so that these changes are propagated throughout the company.
2093	Ancel stated he was not aware of the issues from the team and asserts his departure was In November 2020, Hugues Ricour, the managing director of Ubisoft Singapore, stepped down from that role after these internal reviews and remained with the company.The French trade union Solidaires Informatique initiated a class action lawsuit against Ubisoft in relation to the allegations; Solidaires Informatique had previously represented workers in a case of workplace concerns at French developer Quantic Dream.
2094	The complaint names some of those identified during the initial 2020 accusations, including Hascot, Franois, and Cornet, as directly responsible for maintaining conditions that promoted the harassment.In July 2021, Activision Blizzard was sued by the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH) on accusations the company maintained a hostile workplace towards women and discriminated against women in hiring and promotions.
2095	The employees' response included 3 demands of Ubisoft management, ending the cycle of simply rotating the troublesome executives and managers between studios to avoid issues, for the employees to have a collective seat in ongoing discussions to improve the workplace situation, and establishing cross-industry collaboration for how to handle future offenses that includes non-management employees as well as union In August 2021, a group of Ubisoft employees formed a workers' rights group, A Better Ubisoft, to seek more commitment and action from the company in response to the allegation from the past year.
2096	Axios reported in December 2021 that there was an "exodus" of Ubisoft employees leaving the company due to a combination to lower pay and the impact of the workplace misconduct allegation.Ubisoft Singapore began to be investigated by Singapore's Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive Employment Practices in August 2021 based on reports of sexual harassment and workplace discrimination within that studio, following a July 2021 report published by Kotaku.
2097	Schreier had found that the issues with Hascot had gone back years and had affected the creative development on the Assassin's Creed series and other products as to avoid the use of female protagonists.
2098	Gamasutra also spoke to some former and current Ubisoft employees during this period from its worldwide studios, corroborating that these issues appears to replicate across multiple studios, stemming from Ubisoft's main Ubisoft had a shareholders' meeting on 22 July 2020 addressing these more recent issues.
2099	We see management continuing to avoid this issue", and that the company had generally ignored issues that employees have brought up.
2100	Ubisoft had already been criticized for failing to support female player models in Assassin's Creed Unity or in Far Cry 4, which the company claimed was due to difficulty in animating female characters despite having done this in earlier games.
2101	Further, because of Hascot's clout in the company, the developers would have to make compromises to meet Hascot's expectations, such as the inclusion of a strong male character if they had included female leads or if they had used cutscenes, a narrative concept Hascot reportedly did not like.
2102	This was due to a belief that Hascot had set in the department that female characters did not sell video games.
2103	As translated by Kotaku, the complaints states that Ubisoft "as a legal entity for institutional sexual harassment for setting up, maintaining and reinforcing a system where sexual harassment is tolerated because it is more profitable for the company to keep harassers in place than to protect its employees".
2104	PlayStation game production was designed to be streamlined and inclusive, enticing the support of many third-party developers.The console proved popular for its extensive game library, popular franchises, low retail price, and aggressive youth marketing which advertised it as the preferable console for adolescents and adults.
2105	PlayStation games continued to sell until Sony ceased production of the PlayStation and its games on 23 March 2006over eleven years after it had been released, and less than a year before the debut of the PlayStation 3.
2106	SN Systems produced development kits for future PlayStation systems, including the PlayStation 2 and was bought out by Sony in 2005.Sony strived to make game production as streamlined and inclusive as possible, in contrast to the relatively isolated approach of Sega and Nintendo.
2107	To meet increasing demand, Sony chartered jumbo jets and ramped up production in Europe and North America.
2108	Whilst running, the GPU can also generate a total of 4,000 sprites and 180,000 polygons per second, in addition to 360,000 per second The PlayStation went through a number of variants during its production run.
2109	Further, the cost of production per unit was far cheaper, allowing Sony to offer games about 40% lower cost to the user compared to ROM cartridges while still making the same amount of net revenue.
2110	The production flexibility of CD-ROMs meant that Sony could produce larger volumes of popular games to get onto the market quickly, something that could not be done with cartridges due to their manufacturing lead time.
2111	The lower production costs of CD-ROMs also allowed publishers an additional source of profit: budget-priced reissues of games which had already recouped their development costs.Tokunaka remarked in 1996: .mw-parser-output 0;padding:0 .templatequote Choosing CD-ROM is one of the most important decisions that we made.
2112	It received acclaim and sold strongly; in less than a decade, it became the first computer entertainment platform to ship over 100million units.
2113	His willingness to work with Nintendo derived from both his admiration of the Famicom and conviction in video game consoles becoming the main home-use entertainment systems.
2114	This iteration was intended to be more of a home entertainment system, playing both SNES cartridges and a new CD format named the "Super Disc", which Sony would design.
2115	By the late 1990s, Sony became a highly regarded console brand due to the PlayStation, with a significant lead over second-place Nintendo, while Sega was relegated to a distant third.The PlayStation became the first "computer entertainment platform" to ship over 100million units worldwide, with many critics attributing the console's success to third-party developers.
2116	Its use of compact discs heralded the game industry's transition from cartridges.
2117	Glendenning recalled that he had discreetly used at least 100,000 a year in slush fund money to invest in impromptu marketing.In 1996, Sony expanded their CD production facilities in the United States due to the high demand for PlayStation games, increasing their monthly output from 4million discs to 6.5million discs.
2118	Specifically, all genuine PlayStation discs were printed with a small section of deliberate irregular data, which the PlayStation's optical pick-up was capable of detecting and decoding.
2119	Nintendo had produced floppy disk technology to complement cartridges in the form of the Family Computer Disk System, and wanted to continue this complementary storage strategy for the SNES.
2120	But for various reasons (including the economies for the consumer, the ease of the manufacturing, inventory control for the trade, and also the software publishers) we deduced that CD-ROM would be the best media for PlayStation.The increasing complexity of developing games pushed cartridges to their storage limits and gradually discouraged some third-party developers.
2121	Early advertising prior to the console's launch in North America referenced PSX, but the term was scrapped before launch.
2122	The acquisition meant that Sony could have more launch games ready for the PlayStation's release in Europe and North America.
2123	"When September 1995 arrived and Sony's Playstation roared out of the gate, things immediately felt different than they did with the Saturn launch earlier that year.
2124	In addition, Sony announced that no games would be bundled with the console.Although the Saturn had released early in the United States to gain an advantage over the PlayStation, the surprise launch upset many retailers who were not informed in time, harming sales.
2125	There were over 100,000 pre-orders placed and 17 games available on the market by the time of the PlayStation's American launch, in comparison to the Saturn's six launch games.The PlayStation released in Europe on 29 September 1995 and in Australia on 15 November 1995.
2126	Sales figures for PlayStation hardware and software only increased following the launch of the Nintendo 64.
2127	Tokunaka speculated that the Nintendo 64 launch had actually helped PlayStation sales by raising public awareness of the gaming market through Nintendo's added marketing efforts.
2128	Although its launch was successful, the technically superior 128-bit console was unable to subdue Sony's dominance in the industry.
2129	The PlayStation name and its final design were confirmed during a press conference on May 10, 1994, although the price and release dates had not been disclosed yet.Sony released the PlayStation in Japan on 3 December 1994, a week after the release of the Sega Saturn, at a price of 39,800.
2130	At their keynote presentation, Sega of America CEO Tom Kalinske revealed that its Saturn console would be released immediately to select retailers at a price of $399.
2131	Sony finally launched the console (PS One model) countrywide on 24 January 2002 with the price of Rs 7,990 and 26 games available from start.The PlayStation was backed by a successful marketing campaign, allowing Sony to gain an early foothold in Europe and North America.
2132	Initially, PlayStation demographics were skewed towards adults, but the audience broadened after the first price drop.
2133	This was necessary because PlayStation sales were running at twice the rate of Saturn sales, and its lead dramatically increased when both consoles dropped in price to $199 that year.
2134	They also complimented the low price point of the games compared to the Nintendo 64's, and noted that it was the only console on the market that could be relied upon to deliver a solid stream of games for the coming year, primarily due to third party developers almost unanimously favouring it over its competitors.SCE was an upstart in the video game industry in late 1994, as the video game market in the early 1990s was dominated by Nintendo and Sega.
2135	A total of 28.15million PS One units had been sold by the time it was discontinued in March 2006.Three iterations of the PlayStation's controller were released over the console's lifespan.
2136	Rather than depicting traditionally used letters or numbers onto its buttons, the PlayStation controller established a trademark which would be incorporated heavily into the PlayStation brand.
2137	Featuring two parallel joysticks, it uses potentiometer technology previously used on consoles such as the Vectrex; instead of relying on binary eight-way switches, the controller detects minute angular changes through the entire range of motion.
2138	The Analog Joystick sold poorly in Japan due to its high cost and cumbersome size.The increasing popularity of 3D games prompted Sony to add analogue sticks to its controller design to give users more freedom over their movements in virtual 3D environments.
2139	In addition to the two analogue sticks (which also introduced two new buttons mapped to clicking in the analogue sticks), the Dual Analog controller features an "Analog" button and LED beneath the "Start" and "Select" buttons which toggles analogue functionality on or off.
2140	The controller also features rumble support, though Sony decided that haptic feedback would be removed from all overseas iterations before the United States release.
2141	A Sony spokesman stated that the feature was removed for "manufacturing reasons", although rumours circulated that Nintendo had attempted to legally block the release of the controller outside Japan due to similarities with the Nintendo 64 controller's Rumble Pak.
2142	Next Generation's Chris Charla theorized that Sony dropped vibration feedback to keep the price of the controller down.In November 1997, Sony introduced the DualShock controller.
2143	It features four individual directional buttons (as opposed to a conventional D-pad), a pair of shoulder buttons on both sides, Start and Select buttons in the centre, and four face buttons consisting of simple geometric shapes: a green triangle, red circle, blue cross, and a pink square (, , , ).
2144	The European and North American models of the original PlayStation controllers are roughly 10% larger than its Japanese variant, to account for the fact the average person in those regions has larger hands than the average Japanese person.Sony's first analogue gamepad, the PlayStation Analog Joystick (often erroneously referred to as the "Sony Flightstick"), was first released in Japan in April1996.
2145	The first official analogue controller, the Dual Analog Controller, was revealed to the public in a small glass booth at the 1996 PlayStation Expo in Japan, and released in April 1997 to coincide with the Japanese releases of analogue-capable games Tobal 2 and Bushido Blade.
2146	Unlike its predecessor, its analogue sticks feature textured rubber grips, longer handles, slightly different shoulder buttons and has rumble feedback included as standard on all versions.
2147	The console is bundled with two replica wired PlayStation controllers (those without analogue sticks), an HDMI cable, and a USB-Type A cable.
2148	In reality, the black plastic used was transparent to any infrared laser and did not itself pose an obstacle to duplicators or computer CD drives, although it may have helped customers distinguish between unofficial and genuine source] Early PlayStations, particularly early 1000 models, experience skipping full-motion video or physical "ticking" noises from the unit.
2149	The problems stem from poorly placed vents leading to overheating in some environments, causing the plastic mouldings inside the console to warp slightly and create knock-on effects with the laser assembly.
2150	Sony representatives also recommended unplugging the PlayStation when it is not in use, as the system draws in a small amount of power (and therefore heat) even when turned off.The first batch of PlayStations use a KSM-440AAM laser unit, whose case and movable parts are all built out of plastic.
2151	Sony fixed the problem by making the sled out of die-cast metal and placing the laser unit further away from the power supply on later PlayStation models.Due to an engineering oversight, the PlayStation does not produce a proper signal on several older models of televisions, causing the display to flicker or bounce around the screen.
2152	An action-adventure game is a video game hybrid genre that combines core elements from both the action game and adventure game genres.Typically, classical adventure games have situational problems for the player to explore and solve to complete a storyline, involving very little to no action.
2153	Classical action games, on the other hand, have gameplay based on real-time interactions that challenges the player's reflexes and eye-hand coordination.
2154	Action-adventure games combine these genres by engaging both eye-hand coordination and problem-solving skills.An action adventure game can be defined as a game with a mix of elements from an action game and an adventure game, especially crucial elements like puzzles inspired by older adventure games.
2155	Action-adventures require many of the same physical skills as action games, but also offer a storyline, numerous characters, an inventory system, dialogue, and other features of adventure games.
2156	Popular examples of action-adventure games include The Legend of Zelda, God of War, and Tomb Raider series.When a game stops being an adventure game and becomes an action game is a matter of interpretation.
2157	One definition of the term "action-adventure" may be '"An action/adventure game is a game that has enough action in it not to be called an adventure game, but not enough action to be called an action game."
2158	In some cases an action game with puzzles will be classified as an action-adventure game, but if these puzzles are quite simple they might be classified as an action game.
2159	Others see action games as a pure genre, while an action-adventure is an action game that includes situational Adventure gamers may also be purists, rejecting any game that makes use of physical challenges or time pressure.
2160	They are faster-paced than pure adventure games, because they include both physical and conceptual challenges.
2161	This is a thematic genre with diverse gameplay, so not all survival horror games share all the The Resident Evil franchise popularized this subgenre.Action-adventure games are faster-paced than pure adventure games, and include physical as well as conceptual challenges where the story is enacted rather than narrated.
2162	Resident Evil in particular created the survival horror subgenre, inspiring titles such as Silent Hill (1999) and Fatal Frame (2001).Action-adventure games have gone on to become more popular than the pure adventure games and pure platform games that inspired them.
2163	There are quite a few disagreements in the community and in the media over what actually constitutes an action-adventure game.
2164	The term "action-adventure" is usually substituted for a particular subgenre due to its wide scope.Although action-adventure games are diverse and difficult to classify, there are some distinct subgenres.
2165	Popular subgenres include:Grand Theft Auto clone, is a subgenre of open world action-adventure video games in the third-person perspective.
2166	Action Quest, released in May 1982, blended puzzle elements of adventure games into a arcade-style action game, which surprised reviewers at the time.While noting some similarities to Adventure, IGN argues that The Legend of Zelda (1986) by Nintendo "helped to establish a new subgenre of action-adventure", becoming a success due to how it combined elements from different genres to create a compelling hybrid, including exploration, adventure-style inventory puzzles, an action component, a monetary system, and simplified RPG-style level building without the experience points.
2167	They are characterized by their likeness to the Grand Theft Auto series in either gameplay or overall design.
2168	They emphasize both exploration and puzzle-solving with traditional platform gameplay.Survival horror, emphasize "inventory management" and making sure the player has enough ammunition and recovery items to "survive" the horror setting.
2169	While motion-based, often reflexive, actions are required, the gameplay still follows a number of adventure game genre tropes (gathering items, exploration of and interaction with one's environment, often including an overworld connecting areas of importance, and While the controls are arcade-style (character movement, few action commands) there is an ultimate goal beyond a high score.
2170	Similarly, games like 005 (1981), Castle Wolfenstein and Metal Gear (1987) combined action-adventure exploration with stealth mechanics, laying the foundations for the stealth game subgenre, which would later be popularized in 1998 with the releases of Metal Gear Solid, Tenchu: Stealth Assassins, and Thief: The Dark Project.The cinematic platformer Prince of Persia (1989) featured action-adventure elements, inspiring games such as Another World (1991) and Flashback (1992).
2171	This type of game is often quite similar to role-playing video games.They are distinct from graphic adventures, which sometimes have free-moving central characters, but also a wider variety of commands and fewer or no action game elements and are distinct too from text adventures, characterized by many different commands introduced by the user via a complex text parser and no free-moving character.
2172	It combined maze, shoot 'em up, puzzle-solving and adventure with a 1983 review by Computer and Video Games magazine calling it "the first game that effectively combined the elements of an adventure game with frenetic shoot 'em up gameplay."
2173	Companies have devised ways to give the player help, such as offering clues or allowing the player to skip puzzles to compensate for this lack of ability.Brett Weiss cites Atari's Superman (1979) as an action-adventure game, with Retro Gamer crediting it as the "first to utilize multiple screens as playing area".
2174	Muse Software's Castle Wolfenstein (1981) was another early action-adventure game, merging exploration, combat, stealth, and maze game elements, drawing inspiration from arcade shoot 'em ups and maze games (such as maze-shooter Berzerk) and war films (such as The Guns of Navarone).According to Wizardry developer Roe R. Adams, early action-adventure games "were basically arcade games done in a fantasy" setting.
2175	This consists of a maze of ten levels, each progressively more challenging than the last.
2176	A magic spell can be used to determine the current location of the party, and at higher levels there is a teleport spell that can be used to quickly transition between the maze levels.
2177	Roe R. Adams also cited the arcade-style side-scrolling fantasy games Castlevania (1986), Trojan (1986) and Wizards & Warriors (1987) as early examples of action-adventure games.Games like Brain Breaker (1985), Xanadu (1985), Metroid (1986) and Vampire Killer (1986) combined a side-scrolling platformer format with adventure exploration, creating the Metroidvania platform-adventure subgenre.
2178	Alone in the Dark (1992) used 3D graphics, which would later be popularized by Resident Evil (1996) and Tomb Raider (1996).
2179	Recent examples include the Uncharted franchise, The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and Ark: Survival Evolved.
2180	It is now listed among the best video games of all time.The game ended up as the first of a trilogy that also included Wizardry II: The Knight of Diamonds and Wizardry III: Legacy of Llylgamyn.Starting in the town, which is represented only as a text-based menu, the player creates a party of up to six characters from an assortment of five possible races (Humans, Elves, Dwarves, Gnomes, Hobbits), three alignments (Good, Neutral, Evil), and four basic classes (Fighter, Priest, Mage, Thief), with four elite classes (Bishop: priest and mage spells; Samurai: fighter with mage spells; Lord: fighter with priest spells, and Ninja: fighter with thief abilities) unlocked once the characters have progressed sufficiently.
2181	Good and evil characters normally cannot be assigned to the same party.After characters are equipped with basic armor and weaponry, the party descends into the dungeon below Trebor's castle.
2182	Classes have multiple spells, each with seven levels, that characters learn as they advance.The style of play employed in this game has come to be termed a dungeon crawl.
2183	The goal of most levels is to find the elevator or stairs going down to the next level without being killed in the process.The graphics of the original game are extremely simple by today's standards; most of the screen is occupied by text, with about 10% devoted to a first-person view of the dungeon maze using line graphics.
2184	When monsters are encountered, the dungeon maze disappears, replaced by a picture of one of the monsters.
2185	The game's lack of an automap feature, which had not been invented at the time of its release, practically forces the player to draw the map for each level on graph paper (included in the box) as they walk through the 20x20 dungeon maze, step by step  failing to do this often results in becoming permanently lost, as there are many locations in the maze that have a permanent "Darkness" spell upon the square (making the player walk blindly) or a "Teleport" spell sending the player to a new location.
2186	The original releases of Wizardry also do not announce that the player has teleported and play resumes as if one step forward was taken.The game has unforgiving difficulty as players cannot save their progress within the dungeon; they must exit the dungeon first.
2187	Later Wizardry games made it easier by restarting at the point in the dungeon where the characters died.
2188	Humphrey stated that "There is so much good about this game, it's difficult to decide where to begin", and concluded by describing it as "not easily beaten or solved, I recommend it to anyone tired of mediocre programs and ho-hum dungeon encounters."
2189	The goal, as in most subsequent role-playing video games, is to find treasure including ever more potent items, gain levels of experience by killing monsters, then face the evil arch-wizard Werdna on the bottom level and retrieve a powerful amulet.
2190	The player can move freely throughout the levels without constraint and fulfill the different objectives in any order desired.In Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2, the player character is self-propelling and can have their course altered via the arrow keys or d-pad.
2191	The Career Mode is played as a series of levels of increasing difficulty.
2192	The Game Boy Color's limited capacity necessitated a change in perspective to side-scrolling and isometric overhead levels and a completely synthesized soundtrack.Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 was developed for the Game Boy Advance by Vicarious Visions and released in the United States and Europe in June 2001 with launch of the Game Boy Advance.
2193	He also elaborated on the game's graphical improvements over its predecessor, though noted the slightly unsatisfactory draw distance in the larger levels as a minor flaw.
2194	Jeff Gerstmann of GameSpot commended the large levels and the game's ability to maintain a solid frame rate while handling them.
2195	Care is necessary when teleporting as the player must enter both the level and coordinates to teleport to (the number of steps north, south, east, or west from his current location) and it is easily possible to land in a trap or solid stone, ending the game.
2196	In the event of a total party kill, play cannot be resumed; however, a new party may recover the bodies and items of dead adventurers.
2197	It can take hundreds of hours to finish the game.Wizardry saves the player's party and game progress onto a scenario disk.
2198	Unfortunately, he has been imprisoned by a rogue sorceress known as the Sorn.The party begins by searching for G'bli Gedook, a high priest and guardian of L'Kbreth's Orb.
2199	He instructs the party to venture deeper into the caverns.
2200	After traversing down to the eighth floor, the party must appease four beings known as the Card Lords by bringing them their respective suit.
2201	Once this task is accomplished, the party can venture to the Heart of the Maelstrom and the Gatekeeper may be summoned.
2202	As this occurs, the Sorn and her own party of adventurers strike, prompting a final battle.
2203	With her defeat, the Gatekeeper awards the party the Heart of Abriel.
2204	After booting, a new one may be created with a blank floppy disk or an existing one used.
2205	USCD Pascal was also used for the IBM versions, but with an x86 version of the interpreter.Lengthy load time and extensive disk access was a problem with Wizardry; however, the Commodore versions, which particularly suffer from this, provided a variety of workarounds.
2206	He also noted, however, that the game played slowly due to extensive disk access.
2207	The game took two and a half man-years to complete, but the delay benefited Wizardry by permitting almost one year of playtesting and game balancing before release, distinguishing it from others such as Ultima I. Frederick Sirotek, Norman's businessman father and the company's financier, insisted that the packaging and documentation be professional, also distinguishing the game from others sold in Ziploc bags.The Commodore 64/128 versions of Wizardry 1-3 share a common code base with the Apple originals, as they all use the same run-time 6502 Pascal interpreter which provides support for overlays and low-level functions to interface with the hardware.
2208	By 30 June 1982 it had sold 24,000 copies, making it one of the best-selling computer RPGs in North America up until that time.
2209	In comparison, Temple of Apshai (1979) had sold 30,000 copies and Ultima (1981) had sold 20,000 copies at the time.
2210	Wizardry sold 200,000 copies in its first three years, outselling the original Ultima during that time.
2211	In 1989, Video Games & Computer Entertainment reported that Wizardry had sold "well over 500,000 copies".Within months of Wizardry's release, at least two commercial game trainers for it appeared, despite Sir-Tech denouncing their use.
2212	By year's end, Microsoft had shipped 1.5 million units, including 900,000 in North America, 500,000 in Europe, and 100,000 in Japan.In May 2008, Microsoft announced that 10million Xbox 360s had been sold and that it was the "first current generation gaming console" to surpass the 10 million figure in the US.
2213	In Canada, the Xbox 360 has sold a total of 870,000 units as of August 1, 2008.In Europe, the Xbox 360 has sold seven million units as of November 20, 2008.
2214	The Xbox 360 took 110 weeks to reach 2 million units sold in the UK, generating 507m in revenue.
2215	Their names also appear as initials (i.e., ACG and RJW) on the map of the eighth and ninth floors.Sir-Tech published Wizardry, Revision 2 in 1982, which implemented a number of new features.
2216	50 commented that "By this time, your old disk should be wearing out.
2217	He commented that "Wizardry represents a leap in computer game design.
2218	Macworld commented that the Macintosh port's conversion to the Classic Mac OS mouse-driven graphical user interface enhanced the game's charm and streamlined its gameplay; the game mediates actions through "such familiar Macintosh devices as windows, alert boxes, icons, scrolling lists, and so on."
2219	Based on sales and market-share data, Video magazine listed Wizardry tenth on its list of best selling video games in February 1985, and ninth on the best seller list in March 1985, with II Computing listing Wizardry third on its list of top Apple II games as of OctoberNovember 1985 (behind Zork and Sargon III, and ahead of Zaxxon and Ultima III).
2220	In early 1985, Computer Games magazine called Wizardry the "all-time tops in role-playing entertainment."
2221	In 1996, the magazine named Wizardry the 16th best game ever.
2222	Jerry Pournelle named it the game of the month for August 1985, and one of two games of the month for March 1986, in his "Chaos Manor" column for Byte magazine.
2223	It is the second installment in the Tony Hawk's series of sports games and was released for the PlayStation in 2000, with subsequent ports to Microsoft Windows, Game Boy Color, and Dreamcast the same year.
2224	Martin Taylor of Eurogamer declared the game to be "the supreme champion of extreme sports gaming".
2225	Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 is listed in the Guinness World Records as the best-selling action sports video game for selling over 2 million units in the United States.Following the Game Boy Advance version's appearance at the 2001 Electronic Entertainment Expo, IGNpocket named Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 "Best of Show: Handhelds", "Best Handheld: Sports" and "Best of Show: Handheld Technological Excellence".
2226	It was a runner-up in GameSpot's annual award category for the best alternative sports console game, and in the "Biggest Surprise" and "Best Game Boy Advance Game" categories.
2227	The player takes control of a variety of skateboarders and either performs skateboarding tricks or collects certain objects.
2228	The player must perform tricks and complete level objectives in return for cash rewards, which can be used to unlock other levels, improve the player character's statistics and obtain better equipment.
2229	Passing from a nollie to a fakie (or vice versa) in a chain of tricks increases the multiplier factor of the score collected for that chain.
2230	It is possible to perform wall rides and transfers (changing ramps) as well as manuals that allow several tricks to be chained together.
2231	The game offers several modes of gameplay, including a career mode in which the player must complete objectives and evolve their character's attributes with earned profits, a free-play mode in which the player may skate without any given objective, a multiplayer mode that features a number of competitive games, and a level editor that allows the player to create customized levels.Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 was critically acclaimed upon release and is considered one of the greatest video games of all time, as well as the highest-rated sports video game.
2232	The first player to accumulate the entire word "Free Skate" allows the players to skate freely on the same level without any given goal.The game's Level Editor incorporates over 100 pieces and a variety of pre-built park bases.
2233	All versions of the game were praised, with critics lauding its addictive gameplay, large environments, detailed graphics, fluid and precise controls, customization features and soundtrack, with some minor criticisms directed at the lack of a first-person camera and the truncated soundtrack of the Nintendo 64 version.Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 puts the player in control of a professional or fictional skater and takes place in a third-person view with a fixed camera.
2234	Each completed objective is rewarded with cash, which can be used to improve skater statistics and obtain new equipment and playable characters.A select few levels take place in a competition in which the player must perform for judges and accumulate the highest score within three one-minute rounds.
2235	The game includes all of the original levels and skaters from the original games, but also includes improved skater creation and park creation modes, online multiplayer, and other new features, and featured most of the original Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 was met with universal critical acclaim upon release and remains the best-reviewed PlayStation video game of all time, as well as being the second highest rated game of all time behind The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time with an aggregate score of 98/100 on Metacritic.
2236	The game's universe maintains a loose grip on physics for the sake of gameplay quality; while the player character can jump reasonable heights and perform short grinds early on in their career, they may eventually come to grind for much longer distances and reach such a disproportionate height in their jumps as to be capable of stringing an unrealistic chain of maneuvers together midair.
2237	Other button inputs can be used to perform slides, grabs, and flips.
2238	A series of inputs can be used to perform lip tricks.
2239	The game features a vast number of skateboarding tricks.
2240	The player must use directional input to maintain balance during a manual; in the 2X port, balance is visually represented by a vertical scale that appears next to the player character.The game features ten professional skateboarders, along with four unlockable original characters, depending on the version.
2241	Furthermore, the game features Spider-Man via a licensing deal with Marvel Comics.
2242	Additionally, the South Korean and other Asian versions featured the girl group Fin.K.L.Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 features five modes of gameplay: Career Mode, Free Skate, Single Session, Multiplayer and the Level Editor.
2243	The setting can be altered between themes such as a warehouse or park, and elemental pieces are rotatable and flexible in size.The game features a total of thirteen real-life professional skateboarders, along with four unlockable original characters, depending on the version.
2244	The Dreamcast version was developed by Treyarch and was released in the United States in November 2000 and in Europe the following month.The Dreamcast version features smoother textures and higher-quality animation than the PlayStation version.
2245	The Nintendo 64 version includes all of the features from the PlayStation version plus an additional level.
2246	The PC version features improved textures and resolution over the PlayStation version.
2247	Other objectives are more varied, such as making figures at specific locations, jumping to difficult places or collecting particular objects.
2248	The jury bases its score on the variety, difficulty and quality of the performed tricks.
2249	The player with the lower score on any given turn receives a letter in the word "HORSE" or whatever word the players had generated prior to the game's start.
2250	GameStats includes a "GPM" (Game Popularity Metric) rating system which incorporates an average press score and average gamer score, as well as the number of page hits for the game.
2251	In October 2017, Humble Bundle announced that it was being acquired by IGN.A member of the IGN staff writes a review for a game and gives it a score between 0.1 and 10.0, which is assigned by increments of 0.1 and determines how much the game is recommended.
2252	The score is given according to the "individual aspects of a game, like presentation, graphics, sound, gameplay and lasting appeal".
2253	Each game is given a score in each of these categories, but the overall score for the game is an independent evaluation, not an average of the scores in each category.On August 3, 2010, IGN announced that the site would be changing to a new scoring scale.
2254	Under both systems, the maximum possible score a game can receive is 10.0.
2255	This change also did not affect the scoring system for reader reviews.On September 13, 2012, IGN revealed that as part of its new review format all future reviews would follow a 100-point scale again, but without using decimals, meaning a score of 8.5 would become an 85.
2256	To fully complete these levels, the player must both accumulate a score high enough to win a gold medal and collect all the cash scattered within the level.
2257	Other single-player modes include the Single Session, in which the player can freely accumulate a high score within two minutes using any previously obtained levels and characters, and the Free Skate, in which there is no time limit The multiplayer mode consists of five types of games: "Graffiti", "Trick Attack", "Tag", "HORSE" and "Free Skate".
2258	In "Graffiti", players must accumulate the highest score by changing level elements into their own color via the use of tricks.
2259	"Trick Attack" is a mode in which players must accumulate the highest score by chaining tricks together.
2260	The mode includes a series of small bonuses given for transfers, jumps and slides made across particular environmental elements.
2261	The game features two modes of play ("Career Mode" and "Free Skate"), thirteen skaters, seven stages and a password system to aid in tracking the player's progress.
2262	The game's graphics had been improved from those of the PC and Dreamcast versions; the textures were reworked to display more detail, most notably in the patches of grass.A version for Windows Mobile devices was developed by Aspyr Media and released in April 2006.
2263	The company was founded in the San Francisco Bay Area by University of California, Berkeley graduates Ling Xiao and Chris Wang and Swarthmore College graduate Dan Yue.
2264	In September 2009, competitor Zynga initiated a trade secrets lawsuits against Playdom and 22 other rivals, including Green Patch.
2265	In April 2010, Playdom closed all but one of the games from the Green Patch studio six months On April 26, 2010, Playdom announced the acquisition of Merscom, a North Carolina-based social game developer.
2266	On June 7, 2010, Playdom announced the acquisition of gaming developer Hive7 after a $33 million funding round.
2267	This marked Playdom's sixth acquisition over the prior year.
2268	On May 19, 2010, they acquired Acclaim Games.
2269	On July 8, 2010, Playdom announced it acquired Metaplace, Inc.
2270	RockYou acquired the Facebook games Gardens of Time, Words of Wonder, and Disney City Girl (renamed to City Girl Life).On September 1, 2016, Disney Interactive Media Group announced the end of Marvel: Avengers Alliance and its mobile-only sequel, Marvel: Avengers Alliance 2, bringing a close to the studio.Gardens of Time was the most successful Facebook game created by Playdom, with a peak of 17 million monthly active users and 4 million daily active users.The following games were sold to RockYou between April and October 2014.Sorority Life was an online role-playing game published by Playdom on the social media platforms Facebook and Myspace in 2008.
2271	In September 2005, IGN was acquired by Rupert Murdoch's multimedia business empire, News Corporation, for $650 million.
2272	On May 25, 2011, IGN sold its Direct2Drive division to Gamefly for an undisclosed amount.In 2011, IGN Entertainment acquired its rival UGO Entertainment (owners of 1Up.com) from Hearst Corporation.
2273	Ultimately, News Corp. planned to spin off IGN Entertainment as a publicly traded company, continuing a string of divestitures for digital properties it had previously acquired (including MySpace and Photobucket).On February 4, 2013, after a failed attempt to spin off IGN as a separate company, News Corp. announced that it had sold IGN Entertainment to the publishing company Ziff Davis, which was recently acquired by J2 Global.
2274	IGN Entertainment acquired the online male lifestyle magazine AskMen in 2005.
2275	On April 8, 2013, Blizzard Entertainment announced that it had acquired the staff and assets of the IPL from IGN; its former staff were reassigned to work on in-house esports productions.In November 2017, some IGN employees refused to work to show solidarity with Kallie Plagge, a former editor who alleged that in 2016, another editor, Vince Ingenito, sexually harassed her and another female employee and made inappropriate comments.
2276	Each player assumed the role of a college sorority sister striving to increase her social status by improving her employment and wardrobe, the giving of gifts, and other activities.By the summer of 2009, Steve Meretzky, a contributor to the game and Vice-President of Game Design at Playdom at the time, wrote that Sorority Life had three million monthly active users.
2277	By May 2010, Sorority Life had over 5 million monthly active users, and 600,000-700,000 daily users, on Facebook.On December 23, 2013, Sorority Life announced an "extended downtime" on its Facebook page, and on January 8, 2014, announced that the game would be permanently shut down.
2278	A sequel to the moderately popular Mad Dog McCree, the game abandoned the rather simple style of the original, introducing elements that can be considered "Hollywood", including dynamic shootout scenes and in-game music, as opposed to the original's almost complete lack thereof.
2279	GamePro gave it a rave review, deeming it "a shot ahead of the original" and "a powerful Western shootout that helps justify the cost of a 3DO."
2280	Like the first game, the player follows the storyline and is required to quickly shoot certain enemies to proceed on the quest.
2281	The game was re-released by Digital Leisure in 2003 on DVD-Video and again in 2009 on the Wii as part of the Mad Dog McCree Gunslinger Pack, a compilation that also includes the first Mad Dog game as well as The Last Bounty Hunter.The anonymous main character must track down the wanted outlaw himself, eliminating any and all gang members and hostiles along the way; from the introduction, one can conclude that he or she will be up against renegade Indians, banditos and "Mad Dog's sleazy crew".The player proceeds through the game, first by taking a preparatory shooting lesson with a stagecoach driver  played by Ben Zeller, who appeared in the role of the prospector in the original game  and then by choosing one of three guides: Buckskin Bonnie, the Professor and Shooting Beaver.
2282	Shooting practice at the beginning of the game involves hitting cow skulls, signposts and such from a stagecoach in motion.The player must avoid getting shot and hitting innocent civilians; if one of these occurs, the player loses one of three lives, and a short clip is displayed often showing an undertaker giving advice or criticizing the player's actions.
2283	Each guide takes the player along a different, unique route, but they converge in the game's final shootouts, which take place inside a moving train and in Mad Dog's hideout; the latter scene is especially lengthy and culminates with a showdown with McCree himself.However, hunting down and defeating the infamous gunfighter is not the player's only goal; Mad Dog has hidden a chest full of treasure in his hideout and it is up to the player to get it back from him.
2284	There is also a limited number of bullets in the chamber; however, reloading can be done an infinite number of times.Like Mad Dog McCree, The Last Bounty Hunter and Fast Draw Showdown, Mad Dog II contains random scenes in which the player takes part in a showdown against one or more gunfighters.
2285	At times, the player will discover that the treasure chest is full of sand and obviously does not contain the "lost gold".
2286	However, this scene does not always occur unless the player has reached the end using more than one credit; furthermore, the sand scene does not appear on the CD-i or DVD versions of the game.The player is guided along a path and must shoot the villains before they manage to hit the player character.
2287	The player starts out with an empty chamber and must quickly reload when given the chance, and proceed to eliminate the enemy as fast as possible.
2288	In the CD-i, 3DO, and DOS versions, a mouse or light gun is used to shoot, reload and choose paths or guides; in addition, there is one load/save slot and three possible levels of difficulty.The PC version of Mad Dog II received a 9% from the US version of PC Gamer magazine.The 3DO version received a 6.2 out of 10 from Electronic Gaming Monthly; their reviewers commented the game was fun but lacked longevity.
2289	They particularly praised the sharp graphics, the accuracy of the Gamegun peripheral, and the importance of paying attention to the sounds in order to succeed in the game.
2290	They also praised the choice of three different guides, which they said "adds greater depth and replay value to the game."
2291	Next Generation reviewed the 3DO version of the game, rating it two stars out of five, and stated that "American Laser Games claims that Mad Dog II ends with the longest interactive battle ever filmed, but after having played through a tedious half an hour, you'll probably wonder whether or not this is a good thing."
2292	Next Generation reviewed the Sega CD version of the game, rating it two stars out of five, and stated that "this is still the kind of stimulus-response, shooting-gallery action that defines gaming at its most basic level."
2293	A non-player character (NPC) is any character in a game that is not controlled by a player.
2294	Although these characters are still designed and normally controlled by the gamemaster, when players are given the opportunity to temporarily control these non-player characters, it gives them another perspective on the plot of the game.
2295	This is a character controlled by the GM, but for which the player character is responsible in some way, and who may be put in harm's way by the PC's choices.The term "non-player character" is also used in video games to describe entities not under the direct control of a player.
2296	More complex games, such as the aforementioned Neverwinter Nights, allow the player to customize the NPCs' behavior by modifying their default scripts or creating entirely new ones.In some online games, such as massively multiplayer online role-playing games, NPCs may be entirely unscripted, and are essentially regular character avatars controlled by employees of the game company.
2297	The term originated in traditional tabletop role-playing games where it applies to characters controlled by the gamemaster or referee rather than by another player.
2298	In video games, this usually means a character controlled by the computer (instead of a player) that has a predetermined set of behaviors that potentially will impact gameplay, but will not necessarily be the product of true artificial intelligence.In traditional tabletop role-playing games such as Dungeons & Dragons, an NPC is a character portrayed by the gamemaster (GM).
2299	Some may be only a brief description ("You see a man in a corner of the tavern"), while others may have complete game statistics and backstories.There is some debate about how much work a gamemaster should put into an important NPC's statistics; some players prefer to have every NPC completely defined with stats, skills, and gear, while others define only what is immediately necessary and fill in the rest as the game proceeds.
2300	While the player characters (PCs) form the narrative's protagonists, non-player characters can be thought of as the "supporting cast" or "extras" of a roleplaying narrative.
2301	NPCs thus vary in their level of detail.
2302	There is also some debate regarding the importance of fully defined NPCs in any given role-playing game (RPG), but it is general consensus that the more "real" the NPCs feel, the more fun players will have interacting with them in character.In some games and in some circumstances, a player who is without a player character can temporarily take control of an NPC.
2303	The term carries a connotation that the character is not hostile towards players; hostile characters are referred to as enemies, mobs, or creeps.NPC behavior in computer games is usually scripted and automatic, triggered by certain actions or dialogue with the player characters.
2304	This is typically represented by a dialogue box, floating text, cutscene, or other means of displaying the NPCs' speech or reaction to the player.
2305	In addition to the purposes listed above, this enables development of the player character.More advanced RPGs feature interactive dialogue, or branching dialogue (dialogue trees).
2306	When talking to an NPC, the player is presented with a list of dialogue options, and may choose between them.
2307	At the least, they provide a reference point to the player of their character's relationship with the game world.Ultima is an example of a game series that has advanced from non-branching (Ultima III: Exodus and earlier) to branching dialogue (from Ultima IV: Quest of the Avatar and on).
2308	Similar to this is the most common form of storytelling, non-branching dialogue, in which the means of displaying NPC speech are the same as above, but the player character or avatar responds to or initiates speech with NPCs.
2309	An example are the games produced by Black Isle Studios and White Wolf, Inc.; every one of their games is multiple-choice roleplaying.
2310	Other role-playing games with branching dialogues include Cosmic Soldier, Megami Tensei, Fire Emblem, Metal Max, Langrisser, SaGa, Ogre Battle, Chrono, Star Ocean, Sakura Wars, Mass Effect, Dragon Age, Radiant Historia, and several Dragon Quest and Final Fantasy games.Certain video game genres revolve almost entirely around interactions with non-player characters, including visual novels such as Ace Attorney and dating sims such as Tokimeki Memorial, usually featuring complex branching dialogues and often presenting the player's possible responses word-for-word as the player character would say them.
2311	It has become widely popular as influencers and users of social media platforms such as TikTok utilize livestreams to act as non-player characters.
2312	In return, the streamer will briefly mimic character or act.This phenomenon has become a trend starting from July 2023, as influencers make profits from this new internet character.
2313	This phenomenon has been on a rise as viewers are actively involved in what they are watching, by purchasing digital "gifts" and sending them directly to the streamer.
2314	Pinkydoll, a TikTok influencer gained 400,000 followers the same month that she started NPC Streaming, while her livestreams began to earn her as much as $7,000 in a day.
2315	NPC streaming gives creators a new avenue to earn money online.
2316	IGN is an American video game and entertainment media website operated by IGN Entertainment Inc., a subsidiary of Ziff Davis, Inc.
2317	The IGN website was the brainchild of media entrepreneur Chris Anderson and launched on September 29, 1996.
2318	Originally a network of desktop websites, IGN is also distributed on mobile platforms, console programs on the Xbox and PlayStation, FireTV, Roku, and via YouTube, Twitch, Hulu, and Snapchat.Originally, IGN was the flagship website of IGN Entertainment, a website which owned and operated several other websites oriented towards players' interests, games, and entertainment, such as Rotten Tomatoes, GameSpy, GameStats, VE3D, TeamXbox, Vault Network, FilePlanet, and AskMen, among others.
2319	At the same time, small entertainment website The Den merged into IGN and added non-gaming content to the growing network.
2320	Soon after the acquisition, IGN announced that it would be laying off staff and closing GameSpy, 1UP.com, and UGO in order to focus on its flagship brands, IGN and AskMen.The role-playing video game interest website Vault Network was acquired by IGN in 1999.
2321	The Xbox interest site, TeamXbox, and the PC game website VE3D were acquired in 2003.
2322	The merger also brought the game download site FilePlanet into the IGN group; as of 2011 both FilePlanet and the GameSpy website still operate as video game-related web sites.
2323	In 2004, IGN acquired film review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes and in 2010, sold the website to Flixster.
2324	IGN was sold to publishing company Ziff Davis in February 2013 and operates as a J2 Global subsidiary.Created in September 1996 as the Imagine Games Network, the IGN content network was founded by publishing executive Jonathan Simpson-Bint and began as five individual websites within Imagine Media: N64.com (later renamed ign64.com), PSXPower, Saturnworld, Next-Generation.com and Ultra Game Players Online.
2325	Imagine expanded on its owned-and-operated websites by creating an affiliate network that included a number of independent fansites such as PSX Nation.com, Sega-Saturn.com, Game Sages, and GameFAQs.
2326	IGN has been ranked among the top 500 most-visited websites according to Alexa.
2327	Initially, IGN began opening new offices outside the United States in order to support those regional websites, but later IGN began franchising its brand as a more cost-effective means of globalization, wherein it licensed various media publishers in many countries to use the IGN brand and manage regional websites on their own.
2328	That same month, Imagine Media incorporated a spin-off that included IGN and its affiliate channels as Affiliation Networks, while Simpson-Bint remained at the former company.
2329	GameStats, a review aggregation website, was founded by IGN in 2004.
2330	Unlike the previous conversion to the 20-point scale, this latest scoring system change was retroactive and all previous IGN review scores were to be updated to follow the new system.
2331	However, despite the announcement, the article included a short addition, post-release; it stated that after much discussion, they had decided to retain the decimal point in all upcoming scores.In early 2014, IGN introduced a new policy, in which a game's review score can be re-reviewed and improved, provided that continuous updates form a significant change compared to the game at launch.
2332	This incident was widely circulated across social media.In August 2018, the owner of YouTube channel Boomstick Gaming accused the IGN reviewer Filip Miucin of plagiarizing his video review of the game Dead Cells.
2333	On August 10, IGN published a new review by Brandin Tyrrel, which included an editor's note apologizing again and stating that "this review (and its score) represents solely the opinion of the new reviewer".In a subsequently unlisted video, Miucin responded that while he took "complete ownership over what happened", the similarity was not intentional.
2334	Instead of a 100-point scale, where games are scored in increments of 0.1, all future reviews would use a 20-point scale where games are scored in increments of 0.5.
2335	The scoring change was not retroactive: all scores on reviews written before the change would remain the same.
2336	Examples of games that have been re-reviewed were League of Legends, Heroes of the Storm, Warframe, and the pocket edition of Minecraft.In January 2020, IGN revealed that reviews would be reverted to a 10-point scale, from 1 to 10, finding that the finer distinction of the 100-point scale was difficult to maintain, whereas a 10-point scale would still be true to its reviews and would be easier to promote.IGN's 'Best of' is an end-of-year event to annually honor the year's best games, films, television shows and comics.
2337	It also included reviews of manga and anime from other sections of IGN, such as IGN Comics and IGN DVD.
2338	Kotaku found similarities between Miucin's other reviews, reviews on Nintendo Life and Engadget and material posted on the games discussion forum NeoGAF.
2339	Winners of each award category are selected by IGN staff from a list of nominees, while readers are able to cast their own votes online to determine the 'People's Choice' award for each category.In 2000, Snowball.com purchased an E-federation called the Internet Wrestling Organization (IWO).
2340	IGN Wrestling met its end in early 2002 when many of the staff departed.
2341	On May 17, over 60 members of IGN's staff signed an open letter condemning the article's removal for going against the site's editorial freedom and policies for retracting or correcting articles, as well as the lack of communication with IGN staff.
2342	Interviews with professional wrestling personalities and coverage of wrestling games have been folded into IGN Sports, headed by Jon Robinson.
2343	IGN Sci-Fi: Largely dead since 2002, this section of the site included movie news, comic book reviews, anime coverage and other associated items.
2344	Like the film section, IGN's TV section has a variety of exclusive clips from upcoming television shows.On May 30, 2006, IGN Dreamcast was restarted; however, none of the Dreamcast updates were posted on the main IGN webpage.In 2007, IGN launched its anime site.
2345	It provided features on anime and manga, including trailers and free episodes.
2346	The anime channel was dropped after IGN redesigned the site.
2347	In 2004, IGN launched GameStats, which was intended to be a more unbiased rating network, as it takes in scores from every corporate-owned game rating site and averages them all into one score to give a general idea of the quality of a game.
2348	Its primary focus is selling digital downloads of full PC and Mac video games, as well as anime, comics and game guides.
2349	In 2005, IGN launched its comics site, which is devoted to not just the staple Marvel and DC titles, but also manga, graphic novels, statues and toys.In 2006, IGN launched its television site.
2350	Since 2006, IGN Entertainment began launching regional versions of the website for various countries and pan-regions.
2351	Licensed regional publishers work on their own servers, albeit can link to IGN's HQ database, where they can import or translate articles, and use videos uploaded on IGN's servers that use IGN's own hosted video player.When visiting www.ign.com from an IGN-supported region, the site automatically redirects visitors to their localized version using geolocation software, based on their countries' IP addresses.
2352	However, it is still possible to access the original American website using a navigation bar above or below (depending on the regional website) the page's master template.In 2011, IGN launched IGN Pro League, a professional esports circuit that ran tournaments for StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty, ShootMania Storm and League of Legends.
2353	Skeletal animation or rigging is a technique in computer animation in which a character (or other articulated object) is represented in two parts: a surface representation used to draw the character (called the mesh or skin) and a hierarchical set of interconnected parts (called bones, and collectively forming the skeleton or rig), a virtual armature used to animate (pose and keyframe) the mesh.
2354	When the animated object is more general than, for example, a humanoid character, the set of "bones" may not be hierarchical or interconnected, but simply represent a higher-level description of the motion of the part of mesh it is influencing.The technique was introduced in 1988 by Nadia Magnenat Thalmann, Richard Laperrire, and Daniel Thalmann.
2355	In principle, however, the intention of the technique is never to imitate real anatomy or physical processes, but only to control the deformation of the mesh data.As described in an instructional article by Josh Petty:Rigging is making our characters able to move.
2356	While this technique is often used to animate humans and other organic figures, it only serves to make the animation process more intuitive, and the same technique can be used to control the deformation of any objectsuch as a door, a spoon, a building, or a galaxy.
2357	This technique is used in virtually all animation systems where simplified user interfaces allows animators to control often complex algorithms and a huge amount of geometry; most notably through inverse kinematics and other "goal-oriented" techniques.
2358	Virtual anatomy technology may be combined with artificial intelligence for further enhancement of animation and simulation technology.
2359	The process of rigging is we take that digital sculpture, and we start building the skeleton, the muscles, and we attach the skin to the character, and we also create a set of animation controls, which our animators use to push and pull the body around.This technique constructs a series of bones (which need not correspond to any real-world anatomical feature), sometimes also referred to as rigging in the noun sense.
2360	The bones therefore form a hierarchy.
2361	As the character is animated, the bones change their transformation over time, under the influence of some animation controller.
2362	Each bone has a three-dimensional transformation from the default bind pose (which includes its position, scale and orientation), and an optional parent bone.
2363	Skeletal animation is referring to the forward kinematics part of the rig, where a complete set of bone configurations identifies a unique pose.Each bone in the skeleton is associated with some portion of the character's visual representation (the mesh) in a process called skinning.
2364	In the most common case of a polygonal mesh character, the bone is associated with a group of vertices; for example, in a model of a human being, the bone for the thigh would be associated with the vertices making up the polygons in the model's thigh.
2365	To calculate the final position of the vertex, a transformation matrix is created for each bone which, when applied to the vertex, first puts the vertex in bone space then puts it back into mesh space.
2366	This algorithm is called matrix-palette skinning or linear-blend skinning, because the set of bone transformations (stored as transform matrices) form a palette for the skin vertex to choose from.Skeletal animation is the standard way to animate characters or mechanical objects for a prolonged period of time (usually over 100 frames).
2367	Virtual anatomy properties such as weight of limbs, muscle reaction, bone strength, and joint constraints may be added for realistic bouncing, buckling, fracture, and tumbling effects known as virtual stunts.
2368	The full transform of a child node is the product of its parent transform and its own transform.
2369	A rig is generally composed of both forward kinematics and inverse kinematics parts that may interact with each other.
2370	Portions of the character's skin can normally be associated with multiple bones, each one having a scaling factors called vertex weights, or blend weights.
2371	In most state-of-the-art graphical engines, the skinning process is done on the GPU by a shader program.For a polygonal mesh, each vertex can have a blend weight for each bone.
2372	The movement of skin near the joints of two bones, can therefore be influenced by both bones.
2373	After applying a matrix to the vertex, it is scaled by its corresponding weight.
2374	It is commonly used by video game artists and in the movie industry, and can also be applied to mechanical objects and any other object made up of rigid elements and joints.Performance capture (or motion capture) can speed up development time of skeletal animation, as well as increasing the level of realism.For motion that is too dangerous for performance capture, there are computer simulations that automatically calculate physics of motion and resistance with skeletal frames.
2375	However, there are other applications of virtual anatomy simulations such as military and emergency response.
2376	Benjamin J. Heckendorn (born October 19, 1975) is an American console modder and Computer engineer.
2377	Heckendorn is also an independent filmmaker and he was the star of element14's The Ben Heck Show, a popular online series, until leaving the show in late 2018.He has two podcasts, one which he runs with the help of a friend, Jason Jones, and the other on Warpath.TV with George Force, Mike Zucker, and Anthony Carboni.Most of Heckendorn's mods are done by taking apart old video game consoles such as the Atari 2600 and Nintendo Entertainment System.
2378	As of June 2016, the show had recorded more than 33 million views worldwide.
2379	A typical episode has Ben creating a new product or hacking existing devices, such as an Xbox, for different uses, sometimes based on viewers' As the host of element14's The Ben Heck Show, Heckendorn has made celebrity appearances as an attendee or judge at numerous industry events and competitions, including Maker Faire Detroit and Engadget Expand.It was announced during an interview with an Element14 Community member that Ben would be leaving The Ben Heck Show after June 2018.The Ben Heck Show was replaced with Element14 presents, a similar show featuring a new cast of hosts.
2380	He then reconfigures internal printed circuit board (PCB) into a smaller form factor.
2381	The newly configured circuit board is enclosed within a custom case (done by a CNC machine) and any peripherals are assembled by Heckendorn.His creations have been featured in such publications as Wired, Popular Science, and Maxim, and on television shows such as The Screen Savers, Attack of the Show!, and X-Play.
2382	His mods are also commonly presented on popular blogs such as Engadget.He had an interest in electronic and video games as a child, as a young man in film-making and in later life while working as a graphic artist he made a GeoCities site covering his project to make a portable Atari 2600, this led to an appearance in 2004 on The Screen Savers (following the temporary injury of the normal maker Yoshi) and then to a book deal and requests for custom electronics creations to YouTube videos in 2010.
2383	In 2015 he restored the only known surviving Sony/Nintendo Play Station prototype console, the Super NES CD-ROM.Heckendorn has created a line of portable Atari systems, almost always using some form of Atari 2600 board cut up into a smaller PCB.
2384	As portable computers evolved into modern laptops, they became widely used for a variety of purposes.As the personal computer (PC) became feasible in 1971, the idea of a portable personal computer soon followed.
2385	A "personal, portable information manipulator" was imagined by Alan Kay at Xerox PARC in 1968, and described in his 1972 paper as the "Dynabook".
2386	The IBM 5100, the first commercially available portable computer, appeared in September 1975, and was based on the SCAMP prototype.As 8-bit CPU machines became widely accepted, the number of portables increased rapidly.
2387	Both Tandy/RadioShack and Hewlett-Packard (HP) also produced portable computers of varying designs during this period.
2388	Laptops, netbooks, and tablets are among the highestvalue portable items in a school.
2389	Therefore, identical models are available both from a major label and from a low-profile ODM in-house brand.Battery-powered portable computers had just 2% worldwide market share in 1986.
2390	The first commercial laptop used in space was a Macintosh portable in 1990 on Space Shuttle mission STS-41 and again in 1991 aboard Apple and other laptop computers continue to be flown aboard crewed spaceflights, though the only long-duration flight certified computer for the International Space Station is the ThinkPad.
2391	He has also turned two Atari 800 computers into laptops.Heckendorn has created five (3 NESp's) Nintendo portables:Heckendorn has made three Sony portables, a "laptop" version of the PS3 based on the Slim version, and a "PS360" controller, which is a PlayStation 3 controller built into an Xbox 360 controller's shell.Heckendorn has made four combo system to date.In February 2005, Heckendorn released his book Hacking Video Game Consoles, published by Wiley Publishing Inc. and printed under their ExtremeTech line.
2392	In addition, posts are made detailing all the projects he is currently working and the projects he has worked on in the past.Heckendorn's other podcast is entitled Sonic Boom, and is available on the Warpath.TV digital network.
2393	His most recent movie, released on October 31, 2008, was entitled Possumus Woman, and is the sequel to his 1995 film, Possumus Man.
2394	This podcast is no longer in production.Heckendorn is also an amateur film maker.
2395	He has completed 6 films since 1995, including his comedic love story, Port Washington, released in 2006.
2396	All of his films have been released independently.Ben Heck starred in a weekly online TV program called element14's The Ben Heck Show, hosted on YouTube and the element14 Community.
2397	A laptop computer or notebook computer, also known as a laptop or notebook, is a small, portable personal computer (PC).
2398	Hard drives started to be used in portables, encouraged by the introduction of 3.5" drives in the late 1980s, and became common in laptops starting with the introduction of 2.5" and smaller drives around 1990; capacities have typically lagged behind physically larger desktop drives.Common resolutions of laptop webcams are 720p (HD), and in lower-end laptops 480p.
2399	Starting around 2011, the trend shifted against internal optical drives, and as of 2022, they have largely disappeared, but are still readily available as external peripherals.While the terms laptop and notebook are used interchangeably today, there are some questions as to the original etymology and specificity of either term.
2400	The term laptop was coined in 1983 to describe a mobile computer which could be used on one's lap, and to distinguish these devices from earlier and much heavier portable computers (informally called "luggables").
2401	Since the late 2010s, the use of more specific terms has become less common, with sizes distinguished largely by the size of the screen.There were in the past a number of marketing categories for smaller and larger laptop computers; these included "subnotebook" models, low cost "netbooks", and "ultra-mobile PCs" where the size class overlapped with devices like smartphone and handheld tablets, and "Desktop replacement" laptops for machines notably larger and heavier than typical to operate more powerful processors or graphics hardware.
2402	All of these terms have fallen out of favor as the size of mainstream laptops has gone down and their capabilities have gone up; except for niche models, laptop sizes tend to be distinguished by the size of the screen, and for more powerful models, by any specialized purpose the machine is intended for, such as a "gaming laptop" or a "mobile workstation" for professional use.The latest trend of technological convergence in the portable computer industry spawned a broad range of devices, which combined features of several previously separate device types.
2403	Keyboards on such devices can be flipped, rotated, or slid behind the back of the chassis, thus transforming from a laptop into a tablet.
2404	2-in-1s are often marketed as laptop replacement tablets.2-in-1s are often very thin, around 10 millimetres (0.39in), and light devices with a long battery life.
2405	Laptops typically have a clamshell form factor with a flat panel screen (usually 1117in or 280430mm in diagonal size) on the inside of the upper lid and an alphanumeric keyboard and pointing device (such as a trackpad and/or trackpoint) on the inside of the lower lid, although 2-in-1 PCs with a detachable keyboard are often marketed as laptops or as having a "laptop mode".
2406	Most of the computer's internal hardware is fitted inside the lower lid enclosure under the keyboard, although many laptops have a built-in webcam at the top of the screen and some modern ones even feature a touch-screen display.
2407	In most cases, unlike tablet computers which run on mobile operating systems, laptops tend to run on desktop operating systems, which were originally developed for desktop computers.Laptops run on both an AC power supply and a rechargeable battery pack and can be folded shut for convenient storage and transportation, making them suitable for mobile use.
2408	The term "notebook" originally referred to a type of portable computer that was smaller and lighter than mainstream laptops of the time, but has since come to mean the same thing and no longer refers to any specific size.Laptops combine many of the input/output components and capabilities of a desktop computer into a single unit, including a display screen, small speakers, a keyboard, and a pointing device (such as a touch pad or pointing stick).
2409	Most modern laptops include a built-in webcam and microphone, and many also have a touchscreen.
2410	Examples of specialized models of laptops include rugged notebooks for use in construction or military applications, as well as low-production-cost laptops such as those from the One Laptop per Child (OLPC) organization, which incorporate features like solar charging and semi-flexible components not found on most laptop computers.
2411	The first laptops using the flip form factor appeared in the early 1980s.
2412	in some designs.Some laptops in the 1980s used red plasma displays, could only be used when connected to AC power, and had a built in power supply.The development of memory cards was driven in the 1980s by the need for an alternative to floppy disk drives that had lower power consumption, had less weight and occupied less volume in laptops.
2413	Laptops can be powered by an internal battery or an external power supply by using an AC adapter.
2414	Some CPUs, such as the 1990 Intel i386SL, were designed to use minimum power to increase battery life of portable computers and were supported by dynamic power management features such as Intel SpeedStep and AMD PowerNow!
2415	Since 2015, Intel has not offered new laptop CPU models with pins to be interchangeable, preferring ball grid array chip packages which have to be soldered; and as of 2021, only a few rare models using desktop parts.In the past, some laptops have used a desktop processor instead of the laptop version and have had high-performance gains at the cost of greater weight, heat, and limited battery life; this is not unknown as of 2022, but since around 2010, the practice has been restricted to small-volume gaming models.
2416	Innovations in laptops and batteries have seen situations in which the battery can provide up to 24 hours of continued operation, assuming average power consumption levels.
2417	An example is the HP EliteBook 6930p when used with its ultra-capacity battery.Laptops with removable batteries may support larger replacement batteries with extended capacity.A laptop's battery is charged using an external power supply, which is plugged into a wall outlet.
2418	In most cases, it can charge the battery and power the laptop simultaneously.
2419	When the battery is fully charged, the laptop continues to run on power supplied by the external power supply, avoiding battery use.
2420	If the used power supply is not strong enough to power computing components and charge the battery simultaneously, the battery may charge in a shorter period of time if the laptop is turned off or sleeping.
2421	Hardware specifications may vary significantly between different types, models, and price points.Design elements, form factors, and construction can also vary significantly between models depending on the intended use.
2422	These included Netbooks, subnotebooks, Ultra-mobile PC, and Desktop replacement computers; these are sometimes still used informally, although they are essentially dead in terms of manufacturer marketing.As of 2021, mainstream consumer laptops tend to come with 11", 13" or 15"-16" screens; 14" models are more popular among business machines.
2423	Larger and smaller models are available, but less common  there is no clear dividing line in minimum or maximum size.
2424	This has increasingly converged around 4K (3840-pixel-wide) resolutions.External displays can be connected to most laptops, with most models supporting at least one.
2425	Even on gaming models where unlocked processors are available, the cooling system in most laptops is often very close to its limits and there is rarely headroom for an operating temperature increase.On most laptops, the GPU is integrated into the CPU to conserve power and space.
2426	Apple's M series SoCs feature a unified pool of memory for both the system and the GPU; this approach can produce substantial efficiency gains for some applications but comes at the cost of eGPU support.Since around the year 2000, most laptops have used SO-DIMM slots in which RAM is mounted, although, as of 2021, an increasing number of models use memory soldered to the motherboard, either alongside SO-DIMM slots or without any slots and soldering all memory to the motherboard.
2427	Some high-end models have four slots; these are usually mobile engineering workstations, although a few high-end models intended for gaming do as well.As of 2021, 8GB RAM is most common, with lower-end models occasionally having 4GB.
2428	This enables users to download digital pictures from an SD card onto a laptop, thus enabling them to delete the SD card's contents to free up space for taking new pictures.Optical disc drives capable of playing CD-ROMs, compact discs (CD), DVDs, and in some cases, Blu-ray discs (BD), were nearly universal on full-sized models between the mid-1990s and the early 2010s.
2429	The first "laptop-sized notebook computer" was the Epson HX-20, invented (patented) by Suwa Seikosha's Yukio Yokozawa in July 1980, introduced at the COMDEX computer show in Las Vegas by Japanese company Seiko Epson in 1981, and released in July 1982.
2430	Samsung has also designed the NC215S solarpowered notebook that will be sold commercially in the U.S. market.A common accessory for laptops is a laptop sleeve, laptop skin, or laptop case, which provides a degree of protection from scratches.
2431	Around 109 million notebook PCs shipped worldwide in 2007, a growth of 33% compared to 2006.
2432	The third quarter of 2008 was the first time when worldwide notebook PC shipments exceeded desktops, with 38.6million units versus 38.5million Due to the advent of tablets and affordable laptops, many computer users now have laptops due to the convenience offered by the device.Before 2008, laptops were very expensive.
2433	In May 2005, the average notebook sold for $1,131 while desktops sold for an average of $696.
2434	It had an LCD screen, a rechargeable battery, and a calculator-size printer, in a 1.6kg (3.5lb) chassis, the size of an A4 notebook.
2435	The upper limits of performance of laptops remain lower than desktops, due to mostly practical reasons, such as decreased battery life, increased size and heat, etc.The upgradeability of laptops is very limited compared to thoroughly standardized desktops, due to technical and economic reasons.
2436	to reduce size and upgradeability prospects.Laptops are less durable than desktops/PCs.
2437	The Toshiba T1100 won acceptance not only among PC experts but the mass market as a way to have PC portability.From 1983 onward, several new input techniques were developed and included in laptops, including the touch pad (Gavilan SC, 1983), the pointing stick (IBM ThinkPad 700, 1992), and handwriting recognition (Linus Write-Top, 1987).
2438	The Personal Computer Memory Card International Association (PCMCIA) was an industry association created in 1989 to promote a standard for memory cards in PCs.
2439	Nvidia Optimus and AMD Hybrid Graphics are examples of this sort of system of switchable graphics.Traditionally, the system RAM on laptops (as well as on desktop computers) was physically separate from the graphics memory used by the GPU.
2440	Before 2000, most laptops used proprietary memory modules if their memory was upgradable.In the early 2010s, high end laptops such as the 2011 Samsung 700G7A have passed the 10GB RAM barrier, featuring 16GB of RAM.When upgradeable, memory slots are sometimes accessible from the bottom of the laptop for ease of upgrading; in other cases, accessing them requires significant disassembly.
2441	Most laptops have two memory slots, although some will have only one, either for cost savings or because some amount of memory is soldered.
2442	The specification for PCMCIA type I cards, later renamed PC Cards, was first released in 1990.Displays reached 640x480 (VGA) resolution by 1988 (Compaq SLT/286), and color screens started becoming a common upgrade in 1991, with increases in resolution and screen size occurring frequently until the introduction of 17" screen laptops in 2003.
2443	Although being common until the end of the 2000s decade, Ethernet network port are rarely found on modern laptops, due to widespread use of wireless networking, such as Wi-Fi.
2444	Another common accessory is a laptop cooler, a device that helps lower the internal temperature of the laptop either actively or passively.
2445	In the 2010s, the common availability of webcams on laptops raised privacy concerns.
2446	The resulting heat increase, which could not be offset by a laptop cushion, may increase male A common practical solution to this problem is to place the laptop on a table or desk or to use a book or pillow between the body and the laptop.
2447	Early first person shooter?<mct>Early fps<mct>First-person shooters were originally known as "Doom clones" in the years following 1993's Doom, while the term "first-person shooters" became more common by around 2000.New genres emerge continuously throughout the history of video games, often due to the cross-pollination of ideas borrowed from different games into new ones.
2448	The earliest known laptops with 1080p (Full HD) webcams like the Samsung 700G7C were released in the early 2010s.Optical disc drives became common in full-size laptops around 1997; this initially consisted of CD-ROM drives, which were supplanted by CD-R, DVD, and Blu-ray drives with writing capability over time.
2449	Higher-end laptops may come with 16GB of RAM or more.The earliest laptops most often used floppy disk for storage, although a few used either RAM disk or tape, by the late 1980s hard disk drives had become the standard form of storage.Between 1990 and 2009, almost all laptops typically had a hard disk drive (HDD) for storage; since then, solid-state drives (SSD) have gradually come to supplant hard drives in all but some inexpensive consumer models.
2450	Solid-state drives are faster and more power-efficient, as well as eliminating the hazard of drive and data corruption caused by a laptop's physical impacts, as they use no mechanical parts such as a rotational platter.
2451	Initially, in the late 2000s, SSDs were substantially more expensive than HDDs, but as of 2021 prices on smaller capacity (under 1 terabyte) drives have converged; larger capacity drives remain more expensive than comparable-sized HDDs.Since around 1990, where a hard drive is present it will typically be a 2.5-inch drive; some very compact laptops support even smaller 1.8-inch HDDs, and a very small number used 1" Microdrives.
2452	As of 2021, drives are uncommon in compact or premium laptops; they remain available in some bulkier models, but the trend towards thinner and lighter machines is gradually eliminating these drives and players  when needed they can be connected via USB instead.An alphanumeric keyboard is used to enter text, data, and other commands (e.g., function keys).
2453	In general, hard drives and memory can be upgraded easily.
2454	circuit boards, hard drives and batteries.Corporate laptop recycling can require an additional process known as data destruction.
2455	The term notebook appears to have gained currency somewhat later as manufacturers started producing even smaller portable devices, further reducing their weight and size and incorporating a display roughly the size of A4 paper; these were marketed as notebooks to distinguish them from bulkier mainstream or desktop replacement laptops.Since the introduction of portable computers during the late 1970s, their form has changed significantly, spawning a variety of visually and technologically differing subclasses.
2456	2-in-1s can have a hybrid or a convertible form, often dubbed 2-in-1 detachable and 2-in-1 convertibles respectively, but are distinguished by the ability to run a desktop OS, such as Windows 10.
2457	2-in-1s are distinguished from mainstream tablets as they feature an x86-architecture CPU (typically a low- or ultra-low-voltage model), such as the Intel Core i5, run a full-featured desktop OS like Windows 10, and have a number of typical laptop I/O ports, such as USB 3 and Mini DisplayPort.2-in-1s are designed to be used not only as a media consumption device but also as valid desktop or laptop replacements, due to their ability to run desktop applications, such as Adobe Photoshop.
2458	Rugged laptops are bulkier, heavier, and much more expensive than regular laptops, and thus are seldom seen in regular consumer use.The basic components of laptops function identically to their desktop counterparts.
2459	Traditionally they were miniaturized and adapted to mobile use, The design restrictions on power, size, and cooling of laptops limit the maximum performance of laptop parts compared to that of desktop components, although that difference has increasingly narrowed.In general, laptop components are not intended to be replaceable or upgradable by the end-user, except for components that can be detached; in the past, batteries and optical drives were commonly exchangeable.
2460	This restriction is one of the major differences between laptops and desktop computers, because the large "tower" cases used in desktop computers are designed so that new motherboards, hard disks, sound cards, RAM, and other components can be added.
2461	Memory and storage can often be upgraded with some disassembly, but with the most compact laptops, there may be no upgradeable components at all.The following sections summarizes the differences and distinguishing features of laptop components in comparison to desktop personal computer parts.The typical laptop has a screen that, when unfolded, is upright to the user.Laptop screens most commonly employ liquid-crystal display (LCD) technology, although use of OLED panels has risen substantially since 2020.
2462	The Dell M17x and Samsung 700G7A, both released in 2011, were among the first laptops to feature a 120Hz refresh rate, and more such laptops have appeared in the years since.A laptop's CPU has advanced power-saving features and produces less heat than one intended purely for desktop use.
2463	All such devices have a touchscreen display designed to allow users to work in a tablet mode, using either multi-touch gestures or a stylus/digital pen.Convertibles are devices with the ability to conceal a hardware keyboard.
2464	This port can be used both for charging and connecting a variety of devices through the use of aftermarket adapters.
2465	These devices mate to the connectors on the laptop, such as through USB or FireWire.Laptop charging trolleys, also known as laptop trolleys or laptop carts, are mobile storage containers to charge multiple laptops, netbooks, and tablet computers at the same time.
2466	Hybrids have a keyboard detachment mechanism, and due to this feature, all critical components are situated in the part with the display.
2467	There is no industry-wide standard form factor for laptops; Moreover, starting with 2013 models, laptops have become increasingly integrated (soldered) with the motherboard for most of its components (CPU, SSD, RAM, etc.)
2468	Many laptops are difficult to disassemble by the average user and contain components that are sensitive to electrostatic discharge (ESD).Battery life is limited because the capacity drops with time, eventually warranting replacement after as little as 23 years.
2469	As of 2015, some laptops also have additional security elements added, including biometric security components such as Windows Hello or Touch ID.Software such as GadgetTrak and Find My Mac have been engineered to help people locate and recover their stolen laptops in the event of theft.
2470	Similarly, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has outlawed landfill dumping or the incinerating of discarded laptop computers.Most laptop computers begin the recycling process with a method known as Demanufacturing, this involves the physical separation of the components of the laptop.
2471	These components are then either grouped into materials (e.g.
2472	It is possible to connect multiple peripheral devices, such as a mouse, keyboard, and several external displays to a modern 2-in-1.Microsoft Surface Pro-series devices and Surface Book are examples of modern 2-in-1 detachable, whereas Lenovo Yoga-series computers are a variant of 2-in-1 convertibles.
2473	For those that can, they can typically contain a single 2.5-inch drive, but a small number of laptops with a screen wider than 15 inches can house two drives.A variety of external HDDs or NAS data storage servers with support of RAID technology can be attached to virtually any laptop over such interfaces as USB, FireWire, eSATA, or Thunderbolt, or over a wired or wireless network to further increase space for the storage of data.
2474	Most laptops have webcams and microphones, which can be used to communicate with other people with both moving images and sound, via web conferencing or video-calling software.Laptops typically have USB ports and a combined jack, for use with headphones, a combined headset, or an external mic.
2475	Many laptops have a card reader for reading digital camera SD cards.On a typical laptop there are several USB ports; if they use only the older USB connectors instead of USB-C, they will typically have an external monitor port (VGA, DVI, HDMI or Mini DisplayPort or occasionally more than one), an audio in/out port (often in form of a single socket) is common.
2476	It is possible to connect up to three external displays to a 2014-era laptop via a single Mini DisplayPort, using multi-stream transport technology.Apple, in a 2015 version of its MacBook, transitioned from a number of different I/O ports to a single USB-C port.
2477	Usage of separate, external ergonomic keyboards and pointing devices is recommended to prevent injury when working for long periods of time; they can be connected to a laptop easily by USB, Bluetooth or via a docking station.
2478	A larger and higher-quality external screen can be connected to almost any laptop to alleviate this and to provide additional screen space for more productive work.
2479	While the older Surface RT and Surface 2 have the same chassis design as the Surface Pro, their use of ARM processors and Windows RT do not classify them as 2-in-1s, but as hybrid tablets.
2480	Some laptops feature socketed processors with sockets such as the Socket G2, but many laptops use processors that are soldered to the motherboard.
2481	This was introduced by Intel with the Core i-series of mobile processors in 2010, followed by similar AMD APU processors in January 2011.Before that, lower-end machines tended to use graphics processors integrated into the system chipset, while higher-end machines had a separate graphics processor.
2482	In the past, laptops lacking a separate graphics processor were limited in their utility for gaming and professional applications involving 3D graphics, but the capabilities of CPU-integrated graphics have converged with the low-end of dedicated graphics processors since the mid-2010s.
2483	For laptops possessing limited onboard graphics capability but sufficient I/O throughput, an external GPU (eGPU) can provide additional graphics power at the cost of physical space and portability.Higher-end laptops intended for gaming or professional 3D work still come with dedicated (and in some cases even dual) graphics processors on the motherboard or as an internal expansion card.
2484	Similarly, a number of hybrid laptops run a mobile operating system, such as Android.
2485	Setting one's laptop with a password on its firmware (protection against going to firmware setup or booting), internal HDD/SSD (protection against accessing it and loading an operating system on it afterward), and every user account of the operating system are additional security measures that a user should do.
2486	Laptops operating in harsh usage environments and conditions, such as strong vibrations, extreme temperatures, and wet or dusty conditions differ from those used in space in that they are custom designed for the task and do not use commercial off-the-shelf hardware.
2487	These include Asus's Transformer Pad devices, examples of hybrids with a detachable keyboard design, which do not fall in the category of 2-in-1s.A rugged laptop is designed to reliably operate in harsh usage conditions such as strong vibrations, extreme temperatures, and wet or dusty environments.
2488	A touchpad (also called a trackpad), a pointing stick, or both, are used to control the position of the cursor on the screen, and an integrated keyboard is used for typing.
2489	A quick double-tap is typically registered as a click, and operating systems may recognize multi-finger touch gestures.An external keyboard and mouse may be connected using a USB port or wirelessly, via Bluetooth or similar technology.
2490	In Robbins v. Lower Merion School District (Eastern District of Pennsylvania 2010), school-issued laptops loaded with special software enabled staff from two high schools to take secret webcam shots of students at home, via their students' Prolonged use of laptops can cause repetitive strain injury because of their small, flat keyboard and trackpad pointing devices.
2491	Many laptops come with RAM and storage that is soldered to the motherboard and cannot be easily replaced.
2492	The display interfaces with the motherboard using the Low-voltage differential signaling (LVDS) or embedded DisplayPort protocol.Externally, it can be a glossy or a matte (anti-glare) screen.In the past, there was a broader range of marketing terms (both formal and informal) to distinguish between different sizes of laptops.
2493	Between around 2000 to 2014, most full-size laptops had socketed, replaceable CPUs; on thinner models, the CPU was soldered on the motherboard and was not replaceable or upgradable without replacing the motherboard.
2494	Machines small enough to be handheld (screens in the 68" range) can be marketed either as very small laptops or "handheld PCs", while the distinction between the largest laptops and "All-in-One" desktops is whether they fold for travel.Having a higher resolution display allows more items to fit onscreen at a time, improving the user's ability to multitask, although at the higher resolutions on smaller screens, the resolution may only serve to display sharper graphics and text rather than increasing the usable area.
2495	That said, performance of desktops often surpass comparably priced laptops.
2496	Mainstream laptop CPUs made after 2018 have at least two processor cores, often four cores, and sometimes more, with 6 and 8 cores becoming more common.For the low price and mainstream performance, there is no longer a significant performance difference between laptop and desktop CPUs, but at the high end, the fastest desktop CPUs still substantially outperform the fastest laptop processors, at the expense of massively higher power consumption and heat generation; the fastest laptop processors top out at 56 watts of heat, while the fastest desktop processors top out at 150 watts (and often need water cooling).There has been a wide range of CPUs designed for laptops available from both Intel, AMD, and other manufacturers.
2497	Its support for 20 V (common laptop power supply voltage) and 5 A typically suffices for low to mid-end laptops, but some with higher power demands such as gaming laptops depend on dedicated DC connectors to handle currents beyond 5 A without risking overheating, some even above 10 A. Additionally, dedicated DC connectors are more durable and less prone to wear and tear from frequent reconnection, as their design is less delicate.Waste heat from the operation is difficult to remove in the compact internal space of a laptop.
2498	The earliest laptops used passive cooling; this gave way to heat sinks placed directly on the components to be cooled, but when these hot components are deep inside the device, a large space-wasting air duct is needed to exhaust the heat.
2499	Modern laptops instead rely on heat pipes to rapidly move waste heat towards the edges of the device, to allow for a much smaller and compact fan and heat sink cooling system.
2500	Waste heat is usually exhausted away from the device operator towards the rear or sides of the device.
2501	A common active method involves using electric fans to draw heat away from the laptop, while a passive method might involve propping the laptop up on some type of pad so it can receive more airflow.
2502	Harsh chemicals such as bleach should not be used to clean a laptop, as they can damage it.Laptops rely on extremely compact cooling systems involving a fan and heat sink that can fail from blockage caused by accumulated airborne dust and debris.
2503	Most laptops do not have any type of removable dust collection filter over the air intake for these cooling systems, resulting in a system that gradually conducts more heat and noise as the years pass.
2504	In many cases, they are more compact as well.
2505	SSDs using the newer and much faster NVM Express standard for connecting are only available as cards.As of 2022, many laptops no longer contain space for a 2.5" drive, accepting only M.2 cards; a few of the smallest have storage soldered to the motherboard.
2506	Google, with its updated version of Chromebook Pixel, shows a similar transition trend towards USB-C, although keeping older USB Type-A ports for a better compatibility with older devices.
2507	The power supply outputs a DC voltage typically in the range of 7.224 volts.
2508	The power supply is usually external and connected to the laptop through a DC connector cable.
2509	The smart battery can internally measure voltage and current, and deduce charge level and State of Health (SoH) parameters, indicating the state of the cells.Historically, DC connectors, typically coaxial power connectors have been used in laptops.
2510	Some vendors such as Lenovo made intermittent use of a rectangular connector.Some connector heads feature a center pin to allow the end device to determine the power supply type by measuring the resistance between it and the connector's negative pole (outer surface).
2511	Vendors may block charging if a power supply is not recognized as original part, which could deny the legitimate use of universal third-party chargers.With the advent of USB-C, portable electronics made increasing use of it for both power delivery and data transfer.
2512	Although the trolleys can be moved between areas from one classroom to another, they can often be mounted or locked to the floor, support pillars, or walls to prevent thieves from stealing the laptops, especially overnight.In some laptops, solar panels are able to generate enough solar power for the laptop to operate.
2513	Desktop PC's do not face similar problems since they are reliant on long lasting power supplies.Because they are valuable, commonly used, portable, and easy to hide in a backpack or other type of bag, laptops are often stolen.
2514	Starting with the 2010's, laptops have decreased substantially in price at the low end due to inexpensive and low power Arm processors, less demanding operating systems such as ChromeOS, and SoC's.
2515	Multiple air intake paths are used since some intakes can be blocked, such as when the device is placed on a soft conforming surface like a chair cushion.
2516	Secondary device temperature monitoring may reduce performance or trigger an emergency shutdown if it is unable to dissipate heat, such as if the laptop were to be left running and placed inside a carrying case.
2517	If more ports are needed, or their position on a laptop is inconvenient, one can use a cheaper passive device known as a port replicator.
2518	In addition, modern operating systems have features such as Activation Lock or similar that prevents the use of the device without credentials.
2519	Aftermarket cooling pads with external fans can be used with laptops to reduce operating temperatures.A docking station (sometimes referred to simply as a dock) is a laptop accessory that contains multiple ports and in some cases expansion slots or bays for fixed or removable drives.
2520	Some stores sell laptop pads that enable a reclining person on a bed to use a laptop.Some of the components of earlier models of laptops can easily be replaced without opening completely its bottom part, such as keyboard, battery, hard disk, memory modules, CPU cooling fan, etc.Some of the components of recent models of laptops reside inside.
2521	Replacing most of its components, such as keyboard, battery, hard disk, memory modules, CPU cooling fan, etc., requires removal of its either top or bottom part, removal of the motherboard, and returning them.In some types, solder and glue are used to mount components such as RAM, storage, and batteries, making repairs additionally difficult.Features that certain early models of laptops used to have that are not available in most current laptops include:Other advantages of laptops:Compared to desktop PCs, laptops have disadvantages in the following areas:The majority of laptops released in 2022 are capable of common tasks such as web browsing, video playback, and office applications, even at the low end.
2522	Most cleaning kits consist of a lint-free or microfiber cloth for the screen and keyboard, compressed air for getting dust out of the cooling fan, and a cleaning solution.
2523	After the device is turned on, the loose debris is reaccumulated into the cooling system by the fans.
2524	Another solution is to obtain a cooling unit for the laptop.
2525	These are usually USB powered and consist of a hard thin plastic case housing one, two, or three cooling fans with the entire assembly designed to sit under the laptop in question which results in the laptop remaining cool to the touch, and greatly reduces laptop heat buildup.Heat generated from using a laptop on the lap can also cause skin discoloration on the thighs known as "toasted skin There are many laptop brands and manufacturers.
2526	Laptops used aboard the International Space Station and other spaceflights are generally the same ones that can be purchased by the general public but needed modifications are made to allow them to be used safely and effectively in a weightless environment such as updating the cooling systems to function without relying on hot air rising and accommodation for the lower cabin air pressure.
2527	The trolleys are used in schools that have replaced their traditional static computer labs suites of desktop equipped with "tower" computers, but do not have enough plug sockets in an individual classroom to charge all of the devices.
2528	The trolleys can be wheeled between rooms and classrooms so that all students and teachers in a particular building can access fully charged IT equipment.Laptop charging trolleys are also used to deter and protect against opportunistic and organized theft.
2529	Many types of laptopcharging trolleys are designed and constructed to protect against theft.
2530	Bulkier and sturdier cases can be made of metal with polyurethane padding inside and may have locks for added security.
2531	Metal, padded cases also offer protection against impacts and drops.
2532	A liquid spill onto the keyboard, while a minor issue with a desktop system, can damage the internals of a laptop and destroy the computer, result in a costly repair or entire replacement of laptops.
2533	This dust is usually stuck inside where the fan and heat sink meet, where it can not be removed by a casual cleaning and vacuuming.
2534	Most of the time, compressed air can dislodge the dust and debris but may not entirely remove it.
2535	However, preventative maintenance such as regular cleaning of the heat sink via compressed air can prevent dust build-up on the heat sink.
2536	Replacement batteries can also be expensive, depending on the availability of the parts.
2537	Some brands specialize in a particular class of laptops, such as gaming laptops (Alienware), high-performance laptops (HP Envy), netbooks (EeePC) and laptops for children (OLPC).Many brands, including the major ones, do not design and do not manufacture their laptops.
2538	The studio was acquired by Activision in January 2005.
2539	After releasing its last game as part of that company, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 1 + 2, Vicarious Visions became part of Activision's sister company Blizzard Entertainment in January 2021 and was merged into it in April 2022, thereby being renamed Blizzard Albany.The studio was founded by brothers Karthik and Guha Bala in 1991 while they were in high school.
2540	Vicarious Visions studio head Jen Oneal moved to Blizzard's management and was succeeded by Simon Ebejer, previously the studio's chief operating officer.
2541	On October 27, 2021, Blizzard informed Vicarious Visions employees that the studio would change its name.
2542	The studio was fully merged into Blizzard on April 12, 2022, and was renamed Blizzard Albany, otherwise retaining its offices.Blizzard Albany's QA team, about 20 members in size, announced a unionization drive in July 2022 as GWA Albany.
2543	In the late 1990s, Vicarious Visions appointed Michael Marvin, an Albany-based investor and entrepreneur, and founder and former CEO of MapInfo Corporation; and Charles S. Jones, investor, who sat on the boards of various software and industrial companies including Geac and PSDI, to its board of directors.
2544	The brothers then founded Velan Studios in November 2016.On January 22, 2021, Vicarious Visions was moved by Activision Blizzard from a subsidiary of Activision to a subsidiary of Blizzard Entertainment.
2545	Vicarious had been working with Blizzard for about two years prior to this announcement, and specifically on the planned remaster of Diablo II, Diablo II: Resurrected, and Blizzard felt the move would be best as to have Vicarious' group provide continued support not only on the remaster but also on other Diablo properties including Diablo IV.
2546	They became known as a leading developer of handheld games breaking ground by the Tony Hawk's Pro Skater series, developing Game Boy Advance and Nintendo DS titles in the franchise's main series as well as one spin off.
2547	For Guitar Hero: On Tour, Vicarious Visions created the "Guitar Grip" peripheral for the Nintendo DS, which emulates the guitar controller for the portable system.It was revealed on June 10, 2011, that Vicarious Visions was working on the 3DS version of Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure, and would go on to have an important role in developing the Skylanders game series, creating the games Skylanders: Swap Force and Skylanders: SuperChargers.
2548	It was originally called Intrinsic Alchemy and developed by Intrinsic Graphics before being renamed after Vicarious Visions acquired Intrinsic Graphics in 2003.
2549	Wizardry V was released in the US for the Super NES by Capcom in 1993, and subsequently re-released for the Satellaview subsystem under the name BS Wizardry 5.Following from the events of Wizardry III: Legacy of Llylgamyn, Heart of the Maelstrom begins after a period of peace brought about through the use of L'Kbreth's Orb is shattered when the powers of chaos literally begin to emerge into the world.
2550	These unnatural energies are especially focused in a series of tunnels beneath the Temple of Sages in Llylgamyn, fittingly called the Maelstrom.
2551	Adventurers, namely the player party, are recruited to journey into these caverns and track down a means of summoning a being known as the Gatekeeper who can seal these chaotic energies once more.
2552	Sir-Tech asked Bradley to rewrite the game to fit into the Wizardry franchise.
2553	This was finished in 1986, but Wizardry V was held back for two years while Wizardry IV: The Return of Werdna was completed.After Wizardry IVwhich did not upgrade its graphics from the first game in the seriessold very poorly, Sir-Tech advertised Wizardry V as "breaking away from the Wizardry system of the past".The game was reviewed in 1989 in Dragon #145 by Hartley, Patricia, and Kirk Lesser in "The Role of Computers" column.
2554	Computer Gaming World's Dennis Owens in 1989 noted the game's similarity to the first three games, saying, "Heart of the Maelstrom is, at once, both more simple than Return of Werdna and improved over the first three scenarios".
2555	Several peripherals have been released, including wireless controllers, expanded hard drive storage, and the Kinect motion sensing camera.
2556	It features a port on the top when vertical (left side when horizontal) to which a custom-housed hard disk drive unit can be attached.On the Slim and E models, the hard drive bay is on the bottom when vertical (right side when horizontal) and requires the opening of a concealed door to access it.
2557	The Xbox 360 Slim/E hard drives are standard 2.5" SATA laptop drives, but have a custom enclosure and firmware so that the Xbox 360 can recognize it.The Xbox 360 uses the triple-core IBM designed Xenon as its CPU, with each core capable of simultaneously processing two threads, and can therefore operate on up to six threads at once.
2558	Various hard disk drives have been produced, including options at 20, 60, 120, 250, 320, or 500GB.Many accessories are available for the console, including both wired and wireless controllers, faceplates for customization, headsets for chatting, a webcam for video chatting, dance mats and Gamercize for exercise, three sizes of memory units and five sizes of hard drives (20, 60, 120, 250 (initially Japan only, but later also available and 320GB), among other items, all of which are styled to match the console.In 2006, Microsoft released the Xbox 360 HD DVD Player.
2559	Users can now install games from disc to the hard drive to play them with reduced load time and less disc drive noise, but each game's disc must remain in the system in order to run.
2560	BT Vision's DVR-based features would not be available on Xbox 360 due to limited hard drive capacity.
2561	A hard drive or memory unit is required to store products purchased from Xbox Live Marketplace.
2562	The earliest versions of the console suffered from a high failure rate, indicated by the so-called "Red Ring of Death", necessitating an extension of the device's warranty period.
2563	Since the console's release in 2005, users have reported concerns over its reliability and failure To aid customers with defective consoles, Microsoft extended the Xbox 360's manufacturer's warranty to three years for hardware failure problems that generate a "General Hardware Failure" error report.
2564	In April 2009, the warranty was extended to also cover failures related to the E74 error code.
2565	The warranty extension is not granted for any other types of failures that do not generate these specific error codes.After these problems surfaced, Microsoft attempted to modify the console to improve its reliability.
2566	With the release of the redesigned Xbox 360 S, the warranty for the newer models does not include the three-year extended coverage for "General Hardware Failures".
2567	On August 17, 2023, Microsoft announced that on July 29, 2024, the Xbox 360 game marketplace will stop offering new purchases and Microsoft Movies & TV app will no longer function (the console will still be able to download previously purchased content, run it, and enter multiplayer sessions).Known during development as Xbox Next, Xenon, Xbox 2, Xbox FS or NextBox, the Xbox 360 was conceived in early 2003.
2568	A "General Hardware Failure" is recognized on all models released before the Xbox 360 S by three quadrants of the ring around the power button flashing red.
2569	The newer Xbox 360 S and E models indicate system overheating when the console's power button begins to flash red, unlike previous models where the first and third quadrant of the ring would light up red around the power button if overheating occurred.
2570	The system will then warn the user of imminent system shutdown until the system has cooled, whereas a flashing power button that alternates between green and red is an indication of a "General Hardware Failure" unlike older models where three of the quadrants would light up red.The Xbox 360 launched with 14 games in North America and 13 in Europe.
2571	A simplified version of it was also accessible at any time via the Xbox Guide button on the gamepad.
2572	It also allowed for personal and music settings, in addition to voice or video chats, or returning to the Xbox Dashboard from the game.On November 19, 2008, the Xbox 360's dashboard was changed from the "Blade" interface to a dashboard reminiscent of that present on the Zune and Windows Media Center, known as the "New Xbox Experience" or NXE.Since the console's release, Microsoft has released several updates for the Dashboard software.
2573	The December 2007 dashboard update added support for the playback of MPEG-4 ASP format videos.
2574	Users may play back their own music while playing games or using the dashboard and can play music with an interactive visual synthesizer.Music, photos and videos can be played from standard USB mass storage devices, Xbox 360 proprietary storage devices (such as memory cards or Xbox 360 hard drives), and servers or computers with Windows Media Center or Windows XP with Service pack 2 or higher within the local-area network in streaming mode.
2575	Such updates are mandatory for users wishing to use Xbox Live, as access to Xbox Live is disabled until the update is performed.At E3 2008, at Microsoft's Show, Microsoft's Aaron Greenberg and Marc Whitten announced the new Xbox 360 interface called the "New Xbox Experience" (NXE).
2576	The update was intended to ease console menu navigation.
2577	The update was released on November 19, 2008.While previous system updates have been stored on internal memory, the NXE update was the first to require a storage deviceat least a 128MB memory card or a hard drive.Microsoft released a further update to the Xbox 360 Dashboard starting on December 6, 2011.
2578	Xbox Video is a digital video service on that offers full HD movies and TV series for purchase or rental on Xbox 360, Windows 8, Windows RT PCs and tablets, and Windows Phones.On August 18, 2015, Microsoft rolled out an update renaming it Movies and TV similar to the Windows 10 App.Xbox Music provides 30 million music tracks available for purchase or access through subscription.
2579	It was announced at the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2012 and it integrates with Windows 8 and Windows Phone as well.In August 2015 Microsoft rolled out an update renaming it to Groove Music similar to the Windows 10 App.Xbox SmartGlass allows for integration between the Xbox 360 console and mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones.
2580	It included a completely new user interface which utilizes Microsoft's Metro design language and added new features such as cloud storage for game saves and profiles, live television, Bing voice search, access to YouTube videos and better support for Kinect voice commands.The Xbox 360 supports videos in Windows Media Video (WMV) format (including high-definition and PlaysForSure videos), as well as H.264 and MPEG-4 media.
2581	some alternative UPnP servers such as uShare (part of the GeeXboX project) and MythTV can also stream media to the Xbox 360, allowing for similar functionality from non-Windows servers.This is possible with video files up to HD-resolution and with several codecs (MPEG-2, MPEG-4, WMV) and container formats (WMV, MOV, TS).As of October 27, 2009, UK and Ireland users are also able to access live and on-demand streams of Sky television programming.At the 2007, 2008, and 2009 Consumer Electronics Shows, Microsoft had announced that IPTV services would soon be made available to use through the Xbox 360.
2582	The first live events streamed on Live were the 2012 Revolver Golden Gods, Microsoft's E3 2012 media briefing and the Miss Teen USA 2012 beauty pageant.XNA Community is a feature whereby Xbox 360 owners can receive community-created games, made with Microsoft XNA Game Studio, from the XNA Creators Club.
2583	An estimated 70 percent of Xbox Live users have downloaded items from the Marketplace.Xbox Live Arcade is an online service operated by Microsoft that is used to distribute downloadable video games to Xbox and Xbox 360 owners.
2584	Television content is offered from MTV, VH1, Comedy Central, Turner Broadcasting, and CBS; and movie content is Warner Bros., Paramount, and Disney, along with other publishers.After the Spring 2007 update, the following video codecs are supported:As a late addition to the December Xbox 360 update, 25 movies were added to the European Xbox 360 video market place on the December 11, 2007 and cost 250 Microsoft points for the SD version of the movie and 380 points for the HD version of the movie.
2585	Xbox Live members in Canada featured the ability to go on the Xbox Live Marketplace also as of December 11, 2007 with around 30 movies to be downloaded for the same number of Microsoft Points.On May 26, 2009, Microsoft announced it would release the Zune HD (in the fall of 2009), which was then the next addition to the Zune product range.
2586	Users of the feature can view additional content to accompany the game they are playing, or the TV shows and movies they are watching.
2587	A video game genre is an informal classification of a video game based on how it is played rather than visual or narrative elements.
2588	Subsequently, retailers displayed games grouped by genres, and market research firms found that players had preferences for certain types over others, based on region, and developers could plan out future strategies through this.With the industry expanding in the 1990s and budgets for video games began growing, large publishers like Electronic Arts began to form to handle the marketing and publication of games, both for consoles and personal computers.
2589	The platform game genre started as "climbing games", based on Steve Bloom's 1982 book Video Invaders, as they were inspired by games like Donkey Kong with ladders and jumping.
2590	For example, a shooter game is still a shooter game, regardless of where or when it takes place.
2591	For example, a first-person shooter is a game that is played from a first-person perspective and involves the practice of shooting.
2592	Whereas "shooter game" is a genre name, "first-person shooter" and "third-person shooter" are common subgenres of the shooter genre.
2593	In Tom Hirschfeld's 1981 book How to Master the Video Games, he divides the games into broad categories in the table of contents: Space Invaders-type, Asteroids-type, maze, reflex, and miscellaneous.
2594	Computer Gaming World initially used three categories in 1981arcade, wargame, and adventurebut by 1989 had expanded its genre list to strategy, simulation, adventure, role-playing adventure, wargame, and action/arcade.
2595	Comparisons between computer and console games showed that players on computers tended to prefer more strategic games rather than action.Chris Crawford attempted to classify video games in his 1984 book The Art of Computer Game Design.
2596	In this practice, basic themes and more fundamental characteristics are used alongside each other.A game may combine aspects of multiple genres in such a way that it becomes hard to classify under existing genres.
2597	For example, because Grand Theft Auto III combined shooting, driving and roleplaying in an unusual way, it was hard to classify using existing terms.
2598	By the time of the Game Boy and Super Nintendo Entertainment System, Nintendo had retired the Arcade, Light-Gun, Robot, Programmable, and Educational series, but added RPG & Simulation and Puzzle.Consoles manufacturers that followed the NES followed similar behavior in requiring licenses to develop games for their systems.
2599	To assure they would get these licenses, console developers tended to stay with gameplay of previously published games for that console, thus causing groups of games within the same genre to grow.
2600	Though one could state that Space Invaders is a science fiction video game, author Mark J.P. Wolf wrote that such a classification "ignores the fundamental differences and similarities which are to be found in the player's experience of the game".
2601	Other examples of such prefixes are real-time, turn based, top-down and side-scrolling.Genre names may evolve over time.
2602	However, because these terms do not indicate anything about the gameplay of a video game, these are not considered genres.Video game genres vary in specificity, with popular video game reviews using genre names varying from "action" to "baseball".
2603	Similarly, the term roguelike has been developed for games that share similarities with Rogue.Elements of the role-playing genre, which focuses on storytelling and character growth, have been implemented in many different genres of video games.
2604	This is because the addition of a story and character enhancement to an action, strategy or puzzle video game does not take away from its core gameplay, but adds an incentive other than survival to the experience.In addition to gameplay elements, some games may be categorized by other schemes; such are typically not used as genres:According to some analysts, the percentage of each broad genre in the best-selling physical games worldwide is broken down as follows.In the last decade, puzzle games have declined when measured by sales, however, on mobile, where the majority of games are free-to-play, this genre remains the most popular worldwide.
10 Second Ninja X	10 Second Ninja X is a 2016 puzzle-platformer game developed by Four Circle Interactive. The game was released on July 19, 2016 for PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Microsoft Windows and Xbox One by Curve Digital and for Nintendo Switch by Thalamus Digital on July 30, 2021.

100ft Robot Golf	100ft Robot Golf is a 2016 sports video game developed and published by No Goblin. In the game, players control mechas and must race to shoot a golf ball into the hole. 100ft Robot Golf was released in October 2016 for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation VR and in March 2017 for Windows. The game was met with a mixed reception.

11-11: Memories Retold	11-11 Memories Retold is an adventure video game set during World War I. It was released on 9 November 2018, two days before the centennial of the armistice. It is co-developed by DigixArt and Aardman Animations, and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment.

13 Sentinels: Aegis Rim	13 Sentinels: Aegis Rim is a 2019 video game developed by Vanillaware and published by Atlus. It was released for the PlayStation 4 in Japan in November 2019 and worldwide in September 2020, with a Nintendo Switch version released in April 2022. The game is divided between side-scrolling adventure segments and real-time strategy (RTS) battles, and follows thirteen high-school students in a fictionalized 1980s Japan who are dragged into a futuristic war between mechas and hostile Kaiju in a nonlinear narrative.

140	140 is a platform game developed and published by Carlsen Games. It was directed by Jeppe Carlsen, who previously worked on Playdead's Limbo.  The game is described as a "minimalistic platformer", using electronic music to create synesthesia as the player makes their way through four different levels, each with its own sound-track. Its gameplay has been compared to other similar games which involve music synchronization like Sound Shapes and the Bit.Trip series, though with difficult platforming elements comparable to games in the Mega Man series. The game was released on Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux systems in October 2013, on Xbox One in August 2016, on PlayStation 4, Wii U in September 2016, and Nintendo Switch in January 2020. A release on PlayStation Vita and Nintendo 3DS was planned, but later cancelled.

198X	In an introductory sequence entitled Beating Heart that plays like a side-scrolling beat 'em up, the teenage protagonist fights their way from the subway station and through the streets of the unnamed city in which they live until they reach a hospital where they are attacked by a hooded figure with glowing red eyes.

1001 Spikes	1001 Spikes is a platform game developed by 8bits Fanatics and Nicalis, and published by Nicalis. Originally named Aban Hawkins & the 1000 Spikes, the game's objective is to escape a vast terrain and struggle to reach for victory without being impaled by spikes and many other disasters. Throughout the multiple travels, the game gets increasingly challenging, especially having to dodge falling stones and much more.

1979 Revolution: Black Friday	1979 Revolution: Black Friday is an adventure interactive drama video game developed and published by iNK Stories, with assistance from by N-Fusion Interactive. It was released for OS X, Windows, and Android and iOS devices in 2016, and for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in 2018. The player controls Reza Shirazi, an aspiring photojournalist, who returns to Iran amidst the Iranian Revolution. As he becomes more involved in the events of the Revolution, Reza is forced to make decisions in order to survive. The player make timed responses throughout the game, determining the outcome of the plot. They are tasked with taking in-game photographs of their surroundings, and given historical background of the events.

2064: Read Only Memories	It was originally released on computer platforms as Read Only Memories in October 2015, and the title was later updated coinciding with its PlayStation 4 release in January 2017.

20XX	Inspired by Mega Man X, players must defeat enemies and complete difficult platforming challenges to finish a stage. The twist is that these stages are generated randomly based on level segments, or "chunks", and allow for both local and online co-op. Rather than giving several lives, the game has permadeath, but is a "roguelite" in that the player can use Soul Chips earned during the level to unlock new types of passive upgrades to buy, and gain upgrades for the next attempt of that particular run.

The 25th Ward: The Silver Case	The 25th Ward was created by Goichi Suda as part of a collaboration with Genki. As he wanted to quickly create a sequel to The Silver Case and wanted to take a different stylistic direction, the proposed mobile platforms suited him. Suda returned along with original scenario writers Masahi Ooka and Sako Kato to write the scenarios. Takashi Miyamoto and Masafumi Takada also returned as character designer and composer respectively. The remake began development following the success of the 2016 high-definition remaster of The Silver Case. Due to the original's origins as a mobile game, Suda decided to completely remake the game instead of just remastering it.

2Dark	A former detective named Mr. Smith travels to the town of Gloomywood to solve a mystery involving disappearing children.

428: Shibuya Scramble	428 is set in the Shibuya ward of Tokyo where the narrative is presented using a combination of scrolling text, live action stills and video sequences. The game shares many story and gameplay elements with Chunsoft's 1998 sound novel game Machi, the most prominent being the locale, Shibuya. Although Chunsoft does not openly state 428 is a sequel, the game contains numerous references to Machi, and an early marketing slogan reads "Breaking a long silence, Shibuya gets going again."

5 Star Wrestling: ReGenesis	5 Star Wrestling (stylised as 5 Wrestling) was a professional wrestling promotion based in Scotland. The company operated from 2015 to 2018 and promoted events throughout the United Kingdom and Ireland. They also produced a television series which was broadcast on FreeView television for the FreeSports channel. The company was established to focus on promoting live professional wrestling events, after sister company Serious Parody released the 5 Star Wrestling game for PlayStation 3.

60 Seconds!	The game was originally supposed to be a test to see if Unity was the right game engine to use. It ended up being released to the world because of how well the test went.

7 Days to Die	7 Days to Die is a survival horror video game set in an open world developed by The Fun Pimps. It was released through Early Access on Steam for Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X on December 13, 2013, and for Linux on November 22, 2014. Versions for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One were released in 2016 through Telltale Publishing, but are no longer being developed. In late 2022, The Fun Pimps announced that the game will be re-released on consoles targeting Xbox Series X/S and PlayStation 5.

8-Bit Armies	8-Bit Armies is a real-time strategy video game developed by Petroglyph Games, which was released on April 22, 2016 for Microsoft Windows and for Xbox One, and PlayStation 4 on 21 September 2018.

8-Bit Hordes	8-Bit Hordes is a real-time strategy video game developed by Petroglyph Games, which was released on August 12, 2016, for Microsoft Windows. It uses the same engine as its predecessor 8-Bit Armies, but is now based in a fantasy themed scenario.

8-Bit Invaders	8-Bit Armies is a real-time strategy video game developed by Petroglyph Games, which was released on April 22, 2016 for Microsoft Windows and for Xbox One, and PlayStation 4 on 21 September 2018.

9 Monkeys of Shaolin	9 Monkeys of Shaolin is a beat 'em up video game developed by Russian developer Sobaka Studio and published by Buka Entertainment and Ravenscourt. The game was released on 16 October 2020 for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One; and Linux, macOS, and Microsoft Windows via Steam.

911 Operator	911 Operator was funded via a Kickstarter campaign which launched on July 21, 2016 with a goal of 9,110 Canadian dollars. The campaign ended successfully on August 20, 2016 with a total of $37,924 raised.

99Vidas	99Vidas (Portuguese for "99 Lives") is a retro-styled side-scrolling beat 'em up video game developed and published by Brazilian studio QuByte Interactive. It was first released for Microsoft Windows, macOS, and Linux in late 2016, followed by PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita in 2017. A Nintendo Switch version was released in November 2018.

Aaero	The basic controls are that of a twin-stick shooter, the left stick controlling the ship while the right controls targeting.

A Boy and His Blob	WayForward's director Sean Velasco, a fan of the original NES title, expressed a desire to re-create and update the experience for current generation gamers, streamlining the NES title's gameplay mechanics to create a more "forgiving" experience. A Boy and His Blob's art direction has received widespread critical acclaim and praise, and was utilized by the developers, in addition to a minimalistic story, in order to create a "heartwarming... and friendly game" accessible to a wide audience.

Absolute Drift: Zen Edition	Absolute Drift is a racing game developed and published by Funselektor Labs. It was released on July 29, 2015 on Windows, OS X and Linux. It was also released on August 29, 2016 on the PlayStation 4 and August 25, 2017 on the Xbox One respectively as Absolute Drift: Zen Edition. Physical media copies on disc were released for the PlayStation 4 platform through Limited Run Games on 13 October 2017, and was limited to 4,000 printed copies. A Nintendo Switch version was released on 3 December 2020.

Absolver	Absolver is a martial arts-themed action role-playing video game developed by Sloclap and published by Devolver Digital for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. In the game, players control warrior characters who fight other players and computer-controlled characters across the fictional land of Adal to prove their worthiness of joining the Absolver peacekeepers. The game's story is focused on the human development of the characters as they fight to find their place in the collapsed empire. The character's fighting moves are customized in a "combat deck" of cards, with each card assigned to a move. Players earn cards, equipment, and weapons by progressing through the game.

Abyss Odyssey	Abyss Odyssey is a platform action-adventure game developed by ACE Team and published by Atlus. It was released in July 2014 for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Microsoft Windows, and for the PlayStation 4 in July 2015.

Abz	Abz is an adventure video game developed by Giant Squid and published by 505 Games for PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, and Amazon Luna. Initially released as a digital title in August 2016, a retail version for consoles was released in January 2017. Following the journey of a diver exploring the ocean and restoring life using sonar calls, the gameplay allows the player to freely navigate underwater environments ranging from open water and natural caverns to ancient ruins.

Accel World vs. Sword Art Online: Millennium Twilight	The story begins with Asuna and Kirito from Sword Art Online being on a picnic with Yui, looking for a spot. Suddenly, they were attacked by the monsters despite the location being a neutral one. After that, an alarm starts alerting everyone to log out at once or be punished. Yui warns Asuna and Kirito to leave before running away, but they follow her to a shrine instead. Kirito is there attacked by Accel World's Black Lotus, who was hired by a witch named Persona Vabel as a diversion while she managed to seal away Yui in plans to start an apocalypse. Realizing she was tricked by the witch, Black Lotus decides to help Kirito and Asuna. Because Persona Vabel is powerful, the trio retreats. They concluded that since they have ignored the logout warning, some of their friends must have as well. The goal is to recruit those, while figuring out why are their worlds colliding, and what Persona Vabel's plans are.

Ace Combat 7: Skies Unknown	A good figher plane game?<mct>Ace Combat 7's plot marks the series' return to its traditional setting of Strangereal, and follows the exploits of "Trigger", a fighter pilot who is assigned to a penal squadron following an accusation of murder, in the midst of a war between the countries of Osea and Erusea. The game features support for virtual reality, offering a set of missions developed for the PlayStation VR headset, as well as several downloadable content packs offering new missions and content.

A Certain Magical Virtual-On	A Certain Magical Index is a light novel series written by Kazuma Kamachi and illustrated by Kiyotaka Haimura. The story follows Toma Kamijo, a high school student from Academy City, and his meeting with Index, a young nun from the Church of England whose mind has been implanted with 103,000 grimoires of the Index Librorum Prohibitorum. The series and its spin-off, A Certain Scientific Railgun, have been adapted into several video games.

Achtung! Cthulhu Tactics	In 1944, Nazi occultists harness the power of Cthulhu Mythos creatures.  Players control a squad of four commandos who have prior experience dealing with the occult and are sent into Germany to counter the occult threat.  Combat is turn-based and tactical, using action points.  Another statistic, momentum points, governs how often characters can use special abilities, such as increasing visibility or doing extra damage.  Instead of recharging automatically, regaining momentum points depends on actions, such as getting critical hits.  As they win combats, players can customize the commandos using skill trees.

Adrift	Development began in 2013, following creator Adam Orth's resignation from Microsoft. The development team envision the game as a "first-person experience", purposefully avoiding violence. Orth compares the game to the upheaval in his life following his controversial comments about the Xbox One's DRM proposal.

Adventures of Pip	In Adventures of Pip, the player plays as Pip, a single pixel born into a world of hi-res and lo-res characters. As Pip defeats his enemies, he gains the ability to evolve into an 8-bit hero and later a 16-bit hero. Each evolution has its advantages and disadvantages. Pip must switch between his evolutions to complete levels. Players will need to evolve and devolve, wall jump, run, shove, break blocks, float, collect, and fight their way through bosses and henchmen till they get to the Evil Queen DeRezia.

Adventure Time: Finn & Jake Investigations	The game was removed from digital storefronts on March 31, 2018, due to the expiration of Little Orbit's Adventure Time license.

Adventure Time: Pirates of the Enchiridion	Finn and Jake wake up to discover that the Land of Ooo has been mysteriously flooded, and set off on an adventure to fix the flood. Players use a boat in open-environment sailing to reach the main areas of the game, where RPG turn-based combat occurs. The game also features an occasional cross-examination minigame, where Finn and Jake must interrogate villains, in "good cop, bad cop" fashion.

Aegis Defenders	Aegis Defenders is a 2D platforming and tower defense game developed by Guts Department. The game originated as a project for USCs Intermediate Games class and had a successful Kickstarter campaign in 2014. It was later picked up by publisher Humble Bundle in 2017 with Japanese publishing support from Kakehashi Games. Aegis Defenders was released on February 8, 2018, on macOS, Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Nintendo Switch.

Aegis of Earth: Protonovus Assault	Aegis of Earth is set fifty years after a deadly event known as the "Silent Apocalypse". This catastrophic event brought forth various creatures hellbent on destroying humanity. Accompanying the arrival of the creatures was a new element called altenite, which stands as earth's last hope at survival. In the time prior to the game's beginnings, the surviving humans have built fortified cities which have since protected them from various assaults. However, with the approaching "Altered States" and continuous monster attacks, the inhabitants must prepare while continuing to expand and defend their cities.

AFL Evolution	AFL Evolution is a video game based on the AFL developed by Wicked Witch Software and published by Tru Blu Entertainment in 2017 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Microsoft Windows. A demo containing player and team creation tools was released on April 5, 2017. The game was released on May 5, 2017 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One and Microsoft Windows via Steam on July 21.

AFL Evolution 2	The AFL video game series is a series of Australian rules football video games licensed and based on the VFL/AFL.

Afterparty	Afterparty is an adventure video game by Night School Studio for macOS, PlayStation 4, Microsoft Windows, and Xbox One platforms in October 2019 and Nintendo Switch in March 2020. Set in hell, themed as a college town, the player navigates conversations and tries to outdrink Satan with the goal of returning two best friends from the afterlife.

Agatha Christie: The ABC Murders	The game retains the main plot from the novel, The A.B.C. Murders, and also the murderer's identity. However, there are some changes, like the number of victims, which are now only three, as the fourth planned victim, (here a man called Dick Dunbar, owner of the Black Swan hotel) is saved by Poirot. In the game, all victims are related, as Alice Archer and Betty Bernard (together with Cust and Dunbar) are former patients of Sir Carmichael Clarke (who is a doctor in the game). The finding of the burnt patient files by Poirot at Combeside, and the recovery of these files, allows Poirot to discover the next victim's identity and prevent the murder (this clue also gives players a strong hint about who the real murderer is, even it's not necessary to know it to finish the game). There are two endings in the game, depending on whether Poirot loads his gun with real bullets or blanks, before handing it to Hastings just prior to the final meeting.

Agent A: A Puzzle in Disguise	Chapters 1-5 are currently available on iOS and Android with the complete tale of espionage on Steam, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, macOS, iOS and Android.

Agents of Mayhem	Agents of Mayhem is an open world action-adventure video game developed by Volition and published by Deep Silver. The game was released in August 2017 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. The game's themes are based on Saturday-morning cartoons and superhero films. It is set in a parallel universe of Volition's Saints Row series, and includes several plot and character crossovers. Agents of Mayhem received mixed reviews; it was generally praised for its humor, characters and combat, but criticized for its repetitiveness. It was a commercial disappointment, which lead to layoffs at Volition.

Age of Wonders: Planetfall	An unknown cataclysm brought the demise of Star Union, an intergalactic human government. Factions rise and battle for dominance as they carve a new future for humanity, and in the process, unwind the cosmic mystery behind the Union's collapse.

Agony	The game is played from a first-person perspective. The player controls one of the Martyrs condemned to Hell, Amraphel (aka Nimrod) tasked with meeting the Red Goddess, one of the creators of Hell, in an effort to escape and return to the land of the living. Unlike other Martyrs, the player possesses the unique ability to possess both other Martyrs and, later in the game, lesser and higher demons, giving them access to special abilities. Using mechanics such as crouching and holding their breath, the player can avoid demons. Besides hiding, the player needs to solve puzzles in order to unlock new areas. There are available hidden statues that the player can collect, as well as paintings which are possible to discover.

A Hat in Time	A Hat in Time is a platform game developed by Danish game studio Gears for Breakfast and published by Humble Bundle. The game was developed using Unreal Engine 3 and funded through a Kickstarter campaign, which nearly doubled its fundraising goals within its first two days. The game was self-published for macOS and Windows in October 2017, and by Humble Bundle for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles two months later. A version for the Nintendo Switch was released in October 2019.

AI: The Somnium Files	AI: The Somnium Files (/a/  EYE) is a 2019 visual novel adventure video game developed and published by Spike Chunsoft. Set in near-future Tokyo, the story follows Kaname Date, a detective who investigates a string of serial killings by entering suspects' memories to extract information. Gameplay is split into two sections: first-person visual novel segments and third-person exploration. The plot progresses via branching routes, leading to multiple endings depending on choices made by the player.

AI: The Somnium Files - Nirvana Initiative	AI: The Somnium Files  Nirvana Initiative (/a/  EYE) is an adventure video game developed and published by Spike Chunsoft, which released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in June 2022 in Japan and North America, and the following month in Europe. Several staff members returned from its predecessor AI: The Somnium Files, including writer Kotaro Uchikoshi and character designer Ysuke Kozaki, while the first game's designer and assistant director Akira Okada took over as director.

Air Conflicts: Pacific Carriers	This was a sequel to the original 2006 game known as Air Conflicts.
The game received mildly positive reviews. The graphics were praised, as was the initial, fun gameplay, but it was noted that the gameplay and music soon get repetitive.

Air Conflicts: Vietnam	The developers aimed to create a game which players could "pick up and play" without requiring a large time investment.

Airport Simulator 2019	At the beginning, the player gets a garage of three airport vehicles: a bus, a baggage carrier, and a fuel truck, with some money. With a fixed number of flights per day, the job is to drive a vehicle (with differences between each other like the speed and handling) across the airport to take them to the plane. The working day ends when all the passengers are transported. From there, staff which will be doing the driving and working for each vehicle can be hired. Staff and vehicles (which can get damaged, or run out of fuel) both can be upgraded as the game progresses.

Akiba's Beat	The game is considered a follow-up to the two Akiba's Trip games, but does not share any of its gameplay mechanics, instead focusing more on JRPG related features and structures. The game plays as an action RPG, with battles initiated once the player moves the playable character into an enemy character, sending involved characters into a separate battle screen.

Akiba's Trip: Hellbound & Debriefed	Akiba's Trip is a Japanese video game franchise by developer Acquire. The franchise consists of five games and an anime television series adaptation by Gonzo that aired between January 4, 2017 and March 29, 2017.

Akiba's Trip: Undead & Undressed	A "Director's Cut" of the game was released in Japan in April 2023 for Windows, Nintendo Switch, and PS4.

A King's Tale: Final Fantasy XV	Three character-driven "Episodes" were released between March and December 2017. Episode Gladiolus, released on March 28, feature Gladiolus Amicitia as the player character along with an appearance by recurring franchise character Gilgamesh. Episode Prompto, released on June 27, takes place during a late-game narrative gap and follows Prompto Argentum as the player character, with the gameplay shifting towards third-person shooting and stealth-based mechanics. Episode Ignis, released on December 13, follows Ignis Scientia as he allies with the Imperial commander Ravus Nox Fleuret to protect Noctis. Episode Ignis was intended to be the final story-based DLC, though positive player feedback resulted in Square Enix wanting to develop further content focusing on other major characters such as Ardyn Izunia. A multiplayer DLC titled Comrades was released in November, which is later superseded by a standalone version in December 2018.

Alan Wake Remastered	Alan Wake is a 2010 action-adventure game developed by Remedy Entertainment and published by Microsoft Game Studios. The game was released in May 2010 for the Xbox 360, with a Windows version following in February 2012 and a remastered version released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Windows in October 2021, as well as a Nintendo Switch version in October 2022. The story follows bestselling crime thriller novelist Alan Wake as he tries to uncover the mystery behind his wife's disappearance during a vacation in the small fictional town of Bright Falls, Washington, all while experiencing events from the plot of his latest novel, which he cannot remember writing, coming to life.

Alba: A Wildlife Adventure	The game takes place at Secarral, a fictional island town in Valencian Community, Spain. The protagonist, a girl named Alba Singh, flies from Great Britain to visit her grandparents for a week-long vacation. After helping to rescue a stranded dolphin, she and her friend Ins form a wildlife rescue league. The next day the mayor announces that the local nature reserve, which suffered from a wildfire, will be developed into a luxury hotel. The girls decide to collect signatures to stop this. They help with multiple cleanups and animal rescue tasks, as well as photographing and cataloging the local wildlife to raise awareness. One of the ultimate goals is to discover an elusive Iberian lynx.  It has an open world.

Alekhine's Gun	Alekhine's Gun (previously known as Death to Spies 3: Ghost of Moscow) is a third-person stealth action video game set during World War II and the Cold War developed and published by Maximum Games. It is the third installment in the series that began with Death to Spies which was followed by its sequel Death to Spies: Moment of Truth, developed by Haggard Games and released in 2007 and 2009 respectively. Alekhine's Gun features open maps with multiple methods to complete levels. It was released on March 1, 2016, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. The name is borrowed from that of a powerful chess formation used by former World Champion Alexander Alekhine in a match against fellow grandmaster Aron Nimzowitsch.

Aleste Collection	The story of Aleste concerns the manmade supercomputer DIA 51, which has been infected by a hybrid virus that is spreading like wildfire, eventually leading DIA 51 to eliminate the human race. When Yuri, Ray's girlfriend, gets injured in DIA's assault, Raymond Waizen has all the reason in the world to get rid of DIA 51 once and for all in his Aleste fighter.

Alex Kidd in Miracle World DX	Alex Kidd in Miracle World is a 2D platform game. The player must finish levels and overcome obstacles and puzzles in both scrolling and single-screen environments. Throughout the 17 stages, Alex faces many monsters and the three henchmen of Janken the Great, before facing Janken himself.

Alienation	Alienation is an action role-playing shooter video game developed by Housemarque and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It was released in April 2016 worldwide. The game is an isometric twin-stick shooter in which one to four players defend themselves against an alien invasion on Earth through increasingly-difficult levels. Players can choose one of three character classes, each with its own abilities. Players can upgrade their weapons with collectables, known as upgrade cores.

Alien: Isolation	Alien: Isolation is a 2014 survival horror game developed by Creative Assembly and published by Sega for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox 360, and Xbox One. Based on the Alien film series, the game is set 15 years after the events of the original 1979 film, and follows engineer Amanda Ripley, daughter of Alien protagonist Ellen Ripley, as she investigates the disappearance of her mother aboard the space station Sevastopol. Once inside, Amanda discovers that the station has fallen into disarray due to an Alien creature on the loose and must find a way to escape. The game emphasizes stealth and survival horror gameplay, requiring the player to avoid, outsmart, and fight enemies with tools such as a motion tracker and flamethrower.

Alice Gear Aegis CS: Concerto of Simulatrix	A console spin-off of the mobile game, titled Alice Gear Aegis CS: Concerto of Simulatrix, by Mages was released for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation 5 in September 2022 in Japan, followed by a worldwide release in March 2023.

The Alliance Alive HD Remastered	Development of The Alliance Alive began following the completion of The Legend of Legacy in 2015, although its concept predated the creation of The Legend of Legacy. The aim was to create a classic role-playing game balancing gameplay and story which used player feedback from the previous game. Most of the original staff returned including director Masataka Matsuura, artist Ryo Hirao, designer Kyoji Koizumi, and composer Masashi Hamauzu. The scenario was written by Yoshitaka Murayama, noted for his work on the Suikoden series. This is the last FuRyu game to be published by Atlus USA before moving to NIS America for future titles.

Alone with You	Rivers was raised in Barry's Bay, Ontario, Canada and is now based out of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. He is a member of the Hand Eye Society and a graduate of the Artsy Games Incubator program. Rivers has been an active and early member of the Toronto independent gaming scene and has been creating games for download and display since 2008.

The Alto Collection	Alto's Odyssey is an endless runner and a sandboarding video game developed by Team Alto and published by Snowman (iOS) and Noodlecake Studios (Android). The player controls Alto as he explores the endless desert across different biomes, each with unique traversal mechanics and challenges. Developed over a year and a half, it was released in 2018 for iOS and Android. It is the sequel to Alto's Adventure (2015).

Alwa's Awakening	The protagonist, Zoe, is magically transported to the land of Alwa, where she must rescue the helpless citizens from an evil overlord and his henchmen.  The gameplay is modeled after the 8-bit era of console games, and it uses pixel art graphics.  It is a Metroidvania-style game, a subgenre of side-scrolling video games with puzzle-platform elements.  The game implements checkpoints, where players can resume playing if they are killed.  Players can respawn like this indefinitely.

Alwa's Legacy	Players control Zoe, a girl who has been summoned to the world of Alwa.  After her adventures in Alwa's Awakening, Zoe attempts to return home but finds enemies standing in her way.  Although a sequel, the story is standalone.  Alwa's Legacy clones Metroidvania-style games from the 16-bit era.  It is a side-scrolling video game with puzzle-platform elements and pixel art.  An alternate mode, when unlocked, challenges players to win the game without violence.

Always Sometimes Monsters	Always Sometimes Monsters is a role-playing video game created by Canadian indie developers Justin Amirkhani and Jake Reardon, developed by Vagabond Dog and published by Devolver Digital. The game was released on 21 May 2014 for Microsoft Windows. A later update using the MonoGame framework brought the game to OS X and Linux on 8 January 2015 and to iOS and Android on 28 May 2015.

The Amazing American Circus	Players control a person who has inherited a circus in 19th century America.  To prepare for a national competition, players travel the country and perform shows.  This is done using deck-building mechanics.  Players engage in card battles to impress audiences, playing cards to decrease their boredom.  Players are given strategic choices, such as choosing to improve both their shows or an individual performer.  Players' decks comprise cards based on which of three performers they select.  New performers can be recruited in each city.

The Amazing Spider-Man 2	The Amazing Spider-Man 2 is an open world action-adventure video game based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man and the 2014 film of the same name. Developed by Beenox, it is the sequel to 2012's The Amazing Spider-Man, and takes place within the same continuity, different from that of the films. The game's plot expands upon that of the film by including additional characters and elements from the Spider-Man comic books and other aspects of the Marvel Universe.

Amnesia Collection	Amnesia: The Dark Descent is a survival horror adventure video game by Frictional Games, released in 2010 for Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X and Linux operating systems, in 2016 for the PlayStation 4 platform and in 2018 for the Xbox One. The game features a protagonist named Daniel exploring a dark and foreboding castle called Brennenburg, while trying to maintain his sanity by avoiding monsters and unsettling events. The game was critically well-received, earning two awards from the Independent Games Festival and numerous positive reviews.

Amnesia: Rebirth	Amnesia: Rebirth is a 2020 survival horror video game developed and published by Frictional Games. It was released for Windows, Linux, and PlayStation 4 on 20 October 2020, for Amazon Luna on 22 October 2021, and for Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S on 20 October 2022. It is the third installment in the franchise and serves as a sequel to Amnesia: The Dark Descent (2010). The game received generally favorable reviews.

Among the Sleep	Among the Sleep is a first-person survival horror action-adventure video game developed by Norwegian developer Krillbite Studio for Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. It was released on 29 May 2014 in North America for the PC. The PlayStation 4 version was released on 10 December 2015 while the Xbox One version was released on 3 June 2016. A definitive remaster titled Among The Sleep: Enhanced Edition was released for Windows on 2 November 2017, and later released for PS4, Xbox One and Nintendo Switch on 29 May 2019.

Among Us	Among Us is a 2018 online multiplayer social deduction game developed and published by American game studio Innersloth. The game was inspired by the party game Mafia and the science fiction horror film The Thing. The game allows for cross-platform play; it was released on iOS and Android devices in June 2018 and on Windows later that year in November. It was ported to the Nintendo Switch in December 2020 and on the PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S in December 2021. A virtual reality adaptation, Among Us VR, was released on November 10, 2022.

Amplitude	The new game would keep the same style of gameplay from the original title, but would feature new songs, modern graphics, and integration of the modern hardware features of the PlayStation consoles and DualShock controller.

Ancestors Legacy	Ancestor's Legacy offers two game modes: a single-player campaign scenario or a multiplayer game, in which the player can choose to play one of four civilizations: Vikings, Anglo-Saxons, Teutons, or Slavs (the Saladin's Conquest DLC adds a fifth civilization, the Saracens). The game features a day/night cycle which changes the way factions play.

Ancestors: The Humankind Odyssey	Ancestors: The Humankind Odyssey is a survival game developed by Panache Digital Games and published by Private Division. It was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in August 2019. It was directed by Patrice Dsilets. Set in prehistoric Africa, players control hominin species within the evolutionary lineage of modern humans, and are tasked to ensure their survival and facilitate their evolution.

Angry Birds Star Wars	On July 15, 2013, Rovio announced a sequel titled Angry Birds Star Wars II. It is based on the Star Wars prequel trilogy and the television show Star Wars Rebels. Angry Birds Star Wars II was released on September 19, 2013. Angry Birds Star Wars was discontinued on February 3, 2020 along with Angry Birds Rio and Angry Birds Star Wars II, with the games also being pulled out of app stores.

The Angry Video Game Nerd I & II Deluxe	The Angry Video Game Nerd, originally known as The Angry Nintendo Nerd, is an American retrogaming review comedy web series created by and starring James Rolfe. The series centers on Rolfe's titular skit character, often simply shortened to "the Nerd" (sometimes just "Nerd"), a short-tempered and foul-mouthed gamer who delivers commentary on retro games of poor quality. While the series began with Rolfe simply playing games while delivering retrospective commentary, the show would eventually grow in scope to encompass sketches featuring guest characters, reviews of gaming consoles and peripherals, and short lectures about video game history and culture.

Anima: Gate of Memories	Anima: Gate of Memories is a third-person action RPG, with both combat and exploration. The game is open world and players can explore the world of Gaia and pick which tasks they complete, which in turn will impact the game's ending. The players are able to control the characters of The Bearer and Ergo Mundus. Only one of the two characters can fight at a time, however players can freely switch between them during fights.

Anodyne	Anodyne is an action-adventure video game developed by Analgesic Productions. After a nearly year-long development through developers Melos Han-Tani and Marina Kittaka's last years in college, the game was released on February 4, 2013, for Windows PC, Mac OS X and Linux. An Android version was released as part of a Humble Bundle on October 15, 2013. The PlayStation 4 version of the game was released on September 9, 2018, the Xbox One version was released on September 21, 2018, and the Nintendo Switch version was released on February 28, 2019. The Anodyne soundtrack was also made available for purchase at the games initial release, including all of the music in the game as well as a few bonus tracks.

Anodyne 2: Return to Dust	The plot of Anodyne 2 is about a young woman named Nova, who becomes a Nano Cleaner when an organization called The Center tasks her with saving the island of New Theland from a harmful substance known as Dust. As she helps more of New Theland's inhabitants, Nova uncovers the truth behind The Center and Dust and reflects on her purpose. 

Anomaly 2	Anomaly: Warzone Earth is a real-time strategy tower defense video game by 11 bit studios. The game was initially announced in late 2010, and released on April 8, 2011 for Windows and Mac OS X.

Anonymous;Code	The game takes place in the year 2037, one year after the disastrous "Sad Morning" event which occurred on February 6, 2036. Due to date overflow errors caused by the Year 2036 Problem, a network of orbital laser satellites called SA4D (Strategic Attack For Defense) went out of control and attacked the capital cities of numerous countries around the world, causing significant chaos, destruction and death. Tokyo in particular suffered greatly, with the numerous satellite laser hits creating "Craters" all over the city. As a result, there are concerns that a similar disaster, the Year 2038 Problem, will occur. 

Another World: 20th Anniversary Edition	Another World is a cinematic platform action-adventure game designed by ric Chahi and published by Delphine Software in November 1991. In North America it was published as Out of This World. The game tells the story of Lester, a young scientist who, as a result of an experiment gone wrong, finds himself on a dangerous alien world where he is forced to fight for his survival.

Anthem	Anthem is an online multiplayer action role-playing video game developed by BioWare and published by Electronic Arts. The game was released worldwide for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on February 22, 2019.

Aokana: Four Rhythm Across the Blue	A manga adaptation began publication in Comp Ace magazine in October 2015. A spin-off mobile game was released in October 2016, followed by two fandiscs in 2017 and 2022 respectively. A sequel was announced for production but has since been put on hold. An anime television series adaptation, produced by Gonzo, directed by Fumitoshi Oizaki, and written by Reiko Yoshida aired between January and March 2016. Crunchyroll and Funimation co-released the anime television series on Blu-ray in North America in 2018.

AO Tennis	It features a career mode where the player works to become world No. #1, starting by being world No. #1500.

AO Tennis 2	AO Tennis 2 game features multiple types of tennis match. The re-designed career mode features a new managing system. Players have to earn money and experience that can be used to boost players' skills and stats. The higher level is, the better form would like to perform. While performance on court is important, how to deal with press conference, how to maintain good relationship with your team would also be critical for players' reputations and decide the quality of sponsors that players can pick up.

A Plague Tale: Innocence	A Plague Tale: Innocence is an action-adventure stealth game developed by Asobo Studio and published by Focus Home Interactive. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in May 2019. It was made available on the cloud-based service Amazon Luna in November 2020. The PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S versions of the game were released in July 2021, alongside a cloud version for the Nintendo Switch. 

Apotheon	Apotheon is a 2D action game with an art style and heroic narrative based on Ancient Greek mythology. The player controls Nikandreos, a young warrior who, with the help of the goddess Hera, fights against the Olympian gods, using various weapons of the Ancient Greeks.

Aqua Moto Racing Utopia	Aqua Moto Racing 2 has a Metacritic score of 85% based on 6 critic reviews.

The Aquatic Adventure of the Last Human	The game takes place in the far future. The player character returns to Earth following an extended trip in space to find that humans have become extinct. The ice caps have melted, the magnetic poles have shifted and mass sub-tectonic water reservoirs have been breached. Players must navigate through the drowned Earth in their submersible to piece together the story of humanity's downfall.

Ara Fell: Enhanced Edition	Ara Fell is a 2016 role-playing video game developed by Stegosoft Games for Microsoft Windows. An enhanced edition of the game was published by Dangen Entertainment for Android, iOS, Linux, macOS, Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in March 2020. The game received generally mixed reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic.

Aragami	The player controls a shadow spirit, Aragami, attempting to reach the end of all thirteen open-world chapters in order. To complete a chapter, the player must go to certain areas to collect items or destroy obstacles and reach the level's exit. Aragami can teleport to any part of the map in a certain radius where a shadow is cast, but doing so expends "Shadow Essence", displayed as a meter on his cape. Shadow Essence is replenished by standing in the shadows, and drained by standing near intense light sources such as lanterns. Later in the game, the player gains a raven that will show the player the location of objectives through walls, and a set of bells that can be rung to lure enemies elsewhere.

Aragami 2	The player controls a shadow spirit, Aragami, attempting to reach the end of all thirteen open-world chapters in order. To complete a chapter, the player must go to certain areas to collect items or destroy obstacles and reach the level's exit. Aragami can teleport to any part of the map in a certain radius where a shadow is cast, but doing so expends "Shadow Essence", displayed as a meter on his cape. Shadow Essence is replenished by standing in the shadows, and drained by standing near intense light sources such as lanterns. Later in the game, the player gains a raven that will show the player the location of objectives through walls, and a set of bells that can be rung to lure enemies elsewhere.

Arcade Classics Anniversary Collection	
Atari 2600

Arcania: The Complete Tale	Arcania (originally released as Arcania: Gothic 4) is an action role-playing video game, spin-off of the Gothic series, developed by Spellbound Entertainment. It was published by JoWooD Entertainment in 2010.

Arise: A Simple Story	After an older tribesman dies and is placed on a funeral pyre, he relives his memories in the afterlife.  Players guide him through various puzzles representing his good and bad memories.

Ark: Survival Evolved	Ark: Survival Evolved (stylized as ARK) is a 2015 action-adventure survival video game developed by Studio Wildcard. In the game, players must survive being stranded on one of several maps filled with roaming dinosaurs, fictional fantasy monsters, and other prehistoric animals, natural hazards, and potentially hostile human players.

Armello	Armello is a 2015 digital role-playing strategy board game developed by League of Geeks. Announced as an iPad title in September 2012, the game has been in development since mid-2011, with music by composers Lisa Gerrard and Michael Allen. Between April and May 2014, a successful Kickstarter campaign was started to help fund a port to Microsoft Windows as well as stretch goals to bring the game to Android and Windows tablets. The game was chosen to receive additional support from governmental funding agencies Screen Australia and Film Victoria.

Ar Nosurge DX	The game debuted with a worldwide release on the PlayStation 3 across in 2014. An extended version containing all of the games downloadable content (DLC), Ar nosurge Plus, was released worldwide the following year on the PlayStation Vita. A remastered high definition version, Ar nosurge DX, was released in Japan in March 2021 for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Microsoft Windows.

Arslan: The Warriors of Legend	The video game was first announced in the June 2015 issue of Kodansha's Bessatsu Shnen Magazine. The video game was later revealed to be developed by Omega Force and published by Koei Tecmo, with Shigeto Nakadai serving as director. It was originally scheduled to release in Japan on the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 on September 17, 2015, but was later delayed to October 1, 2015. Internationally, the video game was released on the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4, as well as the Xbox One and Microsoft Windows platforms on February 9, 2016 in North America and February 12, 2016 in Europe.

Art of Balance	Art of Balance is a puzzle game in which the player has to stack several blocks on top of one another on a platform floating in water without the blocks falling into the water. The blocks can be rotated at 45  angles. The blocks can be square or round and also take on other shapes. Some blocks will break if too many more blocks are placed on it. The game features several different game modes.

Art of Rally	Art of Rally received generally favorable reviews for Windows and Xbox, while the Switch version received mixed reviews.

The Artful Escape	The Artful Escape is a platform game, where the player controls Francis in moving him across a musical-infused landscape. Besides running and jumping, Francis has a guitar which he can play to create various effects, such as interacting with the scenery or facing boss characters.

Ary and the Secret of Seasons	Ary and the Secret of Seasons follows the journey of a young girl named Aryelle, or Ary for short, across the magnificent world of Valdi. Ary has joined the Guardians of Seasons, an old organization traditionally ruled by men.

The Ascent	The Ascent is presented from an isometric view overlooking the character(s). It is a twin-stick shooter. It includes the ability to aim both high and low on enemy targets, allowing the player to differentiate between shooting enemies closer or further away. This mechanic is key to the game's cover system, allowing the player to aim at enemies over the top of the props in the environment. The player can fully customize their character's appearance, and can augment their character with cyberware upgrades to get new skills and abilities. Players have an upgradeable cyberdeck device, which they can use to gain access or "hack" into previously locked areas and loot certain chests.

Ashen	Ashen is an action role-playing game developed by New Zealand studio A44 and published by Annapurna Interactive.

Ashes Cricket	Ashes Cricket is a 2017 video game created by Big Ant Studios, and released worldwide on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Windows. It was the first Big Ant cricket game to be officially licensed to modern teams and players after the Don Bradman Cricket titles, and had the full licence for the 2017-18 Ashes series, which took place in Australia. As part of this, the game contained the ability to take either England or Australia through the Ashes series, or play as an individual star player. As well as this, the game featured a player creation tool that could be used to either create real players and publish them on the game's "cricket academy", or use them in the series or personal player careers.

Assassin's Creed III Remastered	Assassin's Creed III is a 2012 action-adventure video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It is the fifth major installment in the Assassin's Creed series, and a direct sequel to 2011's Assassin's Creed: Revelations. The game was released worldwide for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, beginning in North America on October 30, 2012, with a Wii U and Microsoft Windows release in November 2012. A remastered version of the game was released in 2019 for Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Nintendo Switch, and in 2021 for Google Stadia.

Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag	Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag is a 2013 action-adventure video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It is the sixth major installment in the Assassin's Creed series. Its historical timeframe precedes that of Assassin's Creed III (2012), but its modern-day sequences succeed III's own. Black Flag was originally released for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Wii U in October 2013 and a month later for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. It was later ported to the Nintendo Switch as part of The Rebel Collection alongside Assassin's Creed Rogue in December 2019. The game was released for Google Stadia in September 2021.

Assassin's Creed Chronicles: China	Assassin's Creed Chronicles is a sub-series of video games in the Assassin's Creed franchise. The series consists of three games developed by Climax Studios and published by Ubisoft. The games feature new protagonists and settings and a design that is new to the series: 2.5D environments inspired by traditional brush paintings. The first entry, Assassin's Creed Chronicles: China, was released on April 21, 2015, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It was followed by Assassin's Creed Chronicles: India and Assassin's Creed Chronicles: Russia on January 12, 2016, and February 9, 2016, respectively. A collection comprising all three games was released on February 9, 2016, for the same platforms, and on April 5, 2016, for the PlayStation Vita. 

Assassin's Creed Chronicles: India	Assassin's Creed Chronicles is a sub-series of video games in the Assassin's Creed franchise. The series consists of three games developed by Climax Studios and published by Ubisoft. The games feature new protagonists and settings and a design that is new to the series: 2.5D environments inspired by traditional brush paintings. The first entry, Assassin's Creed Chronicles: China, was released on April 21, 2015, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It was followed by Assassin's Creed Chronicles: India and Assassin's Creed Chronicles: Russia on January 12, 2016, and February 9, 2016, respectively. A collection comprising all three games was released on February 9, 2016, for the same platforms, and on April 5, 2016, for the PlayStation Vita. 

Assassin's Creed Chronicles: Russia	Assassin's Creed Chronicles is a sub-series of video games in the Assassin's Creed franchise. The series consists of three games developed by Climax Studios and published by Ubisoft. The games feature new protagonists and settings and a design that is new to the series: 2.5D environments inspired by traditional brush paintings. The first entry, Assassin's Creed Chronicles: China, was released on April 21, 2015, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It was followed by Assassin's Creed Chronicles: India and Assassin's Creed Chronicles: Russia on January 12, 2016, and February 9, 2016, respectively. A collection comprising all three games was released on February 9, 2016, for the same platforms, and on April 5, 2016, for the PlayStation Vita. 

Assassin's Creed Odyssey	Assassin's Creed Odyssey is a 2018 action role-playing video game developed by Ubisoft Quebec and published by Ubisoft. It is the eleventh major installment in the Assassin's Creed series and the successor to 2017's Assassin's Creed Origins. Like its predecessor, the game features a large open world and adopts many elements from the role-playing genre, putting more emphasis on combat and exploration than stealth. Naval combat from previous titles in the series also plays a prominent role in Odyssey. The game's plot tells a mythological history of the Peloponnesian War between Athens and Sparta from 431 to 422 BC. Players control a Spartan mercenary, who fights on both sides of the conflict as they attempt to find their family and eliminate the mysterious Cult of Kosmos. Odyssey also continues the story arc of Layla Hassan, a major character introduced in Origins, who relives the mercenary's memories through the Animus device to find a powerful artifact.

Assassin's Creed: Origins	Assassin's Creed Origins is a 2017 action role-playing video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It is the tenth major installment in the Assassin's Creed series, following 2015's Assassin's Creed Syndicate. Principally set in Egypt, near the end of the Ptolemaic period from 49 to 43 BC, the story follows a Medjay named Bayek of Siwa and his wife Aya as they seek revenge for the murder of their son. It also explores the origins of the Assassin Brotherhoodreferred here to as the Hidden Onesand of their millennia-long conflict with the Order of the Ancientsforerunners to the Templar Order. The framing story, set in the 21st century, follows a new character, Layla Hassan, who relives Bayek and Aya's memories using a modified Animus device.

Assassin's Creed Rogue Remastered	The plot is set in a fictional history of real-world events in the North-Atlantic and follows the millennia-old struggle between the Assassin Brotherhood, who fight to preserve peace and free will, and the Templar Order, who desire peace through control. The framing story is set during the 21st century and depicts the player as an employee of Abstergo Industries (a company used as a front by the modern-day Templars), who uncovers various secrets about the Assassin-Templar conflict while attempting to fix the company's servers. The main plot is set before and during the French and Indian War from 1752 to 1760, and follows Shay Patrick Cormac, an Irish American privateer and Assassin, who defects to the Templars and helps them hunt down members of his former Brotherhood after becoming disillusioned with their tactics. Gameplay in Rogue is very similar to that of Black Flag with a mixture of ship-based naval exploration and third-person land-based exploration, though some new features have been added.

Assassin's Creed Syndicate	Assassin's Creed Syndicate is an action-adventure video game developed by Ubisoft Quebec and published by Ubisoft. It was released on October 23, 2015, for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and on November 19, 2015, for Windows. It is the ninth major installment in the Assassin's Creed series, and the successor to 2014's Assassin's Creed Unity.

Assassin's Creed Unity	Assassin's Creed Unity is an action-adventure video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It was released in November 2014 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, and in December 2020 for Stadia. It is the eighth major installment in the Assassin's Creed series, and the successor to 2013's Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag. It also has ties to Assassin's Creed Rogue, which was released for the previous generation consoles on the same day as Unity.

Assassin's Creed Valhalla	Assassin's Creed Valhalla is a 2020 action role-playing video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It is the twelfth major installment in the Assassin's Creed series, and the successor to 2018's Assassin's Creed Odyssey. Principally set in the years 872878 AD, the game recounts a fictional story during the Viking expansions into the British Isles. Players control Eivor Varinsdottir, a Viking raider who, while attempting to establish a new Viking clan in England, becomes embroiled in the centuries-old conflict between the Assassin Brotherhood, who fight for peace and liberty, and the Templar Order, who desire peace through control. The game also includes a framing story, set in the 21st century, which follows Layla Hassan, an Assassin who relives Eivor's memories so as to find a way to save the Earth from destruction.

Assassin's Creed Mirage	Assassin's Creed Mirage is a 2023 action-adventure game developed by Ubisoft Bordeaux and published by Ubisoft. The game is the thirteenth major installment in the Assassin's Creed series and the successor to 2020's Assassin's Creed Valhalla. While its historical timeframe precedes that of Valhalla, its modern-day framing story succeeds Valhalla's own. Set in 9th-century Baghdad during the Islamic Golden Agein particular during the Anarchy at Samarrathe story follows Basim Ibn Ishaq (a character first introduced in Valhalla), a street thief who joins the Hidden Ones to fight for peace and liberty, against the Order of the Ancients, who desire peace through control. The main narrative focuses on Basim's internal struggle between his duties as a Hidden One and his desire to uncover his mysterious past.

Assault Android Cactus	Assault Android Cactus is a twin-stick shooter played primarily from a quarter-down perspective. The Player takes control of one of nine Androids, the first of which being Cactus, an Interplanetary Police Department (IPPD) junior constable, who crashes her ship into a space freighter 'Genki Star'. The player must fight through hordes of rogue robots to take back control of the Genki Star. The game can be played in single-player or in local cooperative play with up to four players. The game features four game modes: a story, campaign, a challenging 50 layer mode, Infinity Drive, daily challenges, Daily Drive, and boss rush mode. The game has nine playable androids to choose from, each of which have a different combination of primary and secondary weapons. The game includes 25 stages which morph and transform as the level progresses.

Assault Suit Leynos	In 2201, expanding technologies have given man the power to live anywhere in space. With this backdrop, the story begins with a war between Earth (and its colonies) fighting a cyborg army returning from deep space. In the early stages, the nature or purpose of these cybernetic adversaries, named Chron, is unknown. However, it is later revealed that Chron are the survivors of a failed space expedition (Outer Space Expeditionary Party) sent by Earth one hundred years earlier.

Assetto Corsa	Publisher 505 Games in partnership with Kunos Simulazioni announced on 3 June 2015 that they would bring the game to Xbox One and PlayStation 4 in 2016 and on 20 January 2016 revealed a release date of 22 April 2016. On 24 February 2016 it was announced that the console release was delayed to 3 June 2016. 505 Games and Kunos Simulazioni announced another delay and a new release date for the console versions on 6 May 2016, the game was released on consoles on 26 and 30 August 2016 in Europe and North America respectively. A second game, Assetto Corsa Competizione, was released in May 2019, while Assetto Corsa 2 is set to be released in 2024.

Assetto Corsa Competizione	Kunos Simulazioni announced the game on 21 February 2018 with a planned Steam Early Access release in summer 2018. On 27 July 2018, a 12 September 2018 early access release date and a roadmap with monthly updates until a full release in Q1 2019 was revealed at the Total 24 Hours of Spa 2018 SRO press conference. It was released out of early access on 29 May 2019. On 11 March 2020 publisher 505 Games and Kunos Simulazioni announced ports for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One which were released on 23 June 2020. Versions for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S were announced at Gamescom 2021 and were released on 24 February 2022.

Astalon: Tears of the Earth	Astalon: Tears of The Earth is an action-platformer and Metroidvania game. The player can switch freely between three characters to use the unique abilities of a warrior, archer and wizard to explore a giant tower and defeat the Gorgons that inhabit it.

Astebreed	Astebreed is an action shoot 'em up game. The player controls a mech with several attack options being that of a blade attack, a blade dash attack, a spread shot of 'bullets', two different lock-on functions, and a special "ex-attack". The various attacks are also the means by which the player defends either by canceling out enemy projectiles using the main gun or sword, or by using the sword dash attack to dodge.

Asterigos: Curse of the Stars	Asterigos received positive reviews from critics, who praised its graphics, combat and story, but thought the game lacked polish, with inconsistent voiced scenes and overly easy bosses.

Asterix & Obelix: Slap Them All!	In 2006, licensed versions of numerous board games were produced, including Monopoly, Cluedo, Draughts, Ludo, Game of the Goose, Trivial Pursuit, Backgammon, Pay Day, Snakes and ladders, Quarto, and others.

Asterix & Obelix XXL Romastered	Asterix & Obelix XXL is an action-adventure video game first released in 2003. It is based on the French comic book series Asterix about the Gaulish warrior Asterix in the year 50 BC, as he and his best friend Obelix battle the Romans. It was released in the United States (for PlayStation 2 only) with the title Asterix & Obelix: Kick Buttix.

Asterix & Obelix XXL 2: Mission: Las Vegum	A remake called Asterix & Obelix XXL 2: Mission: Wifix was released for the Nintendo DS and PlayStation Portable in 2006.

Asterix & Obelix XXL 3: The Crystal Menhir	In 2006, licensed versions of numerous board games were produced, including Monopoly, Cluedo, Draughts, Ludo, Game of the Goose, Trivial Pursuit, Backgammon, Pay Day, Snakes and ladders, Quarto, and others.

Asterix & Obelix XXXL: The Ram From Hibernia	In 2006, licensed versions of numerous board games were produced, including Monopoly, Cluedo, Draughts, Ludo, Game of the Goose, Trivial Pursuit, Backgammon, Pay Day, Snakes and ladders, Quarto, and others.

Astria Ascending	The gameplay of Astria Ascending revolve around the player's interactions with non-player characters, objects, and enemies in hand-drawn 2D environments within the context of multiple video game genres. The game was released for Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on September 30, 2021. All versions of Astria Ascending were met with a mixed critical reception.

Astroneer	Astroneer, officially stylized in all caps, is a sandbox adventure game developed from independent developer System Era Softworks. The game was released through early access in December 2016 before a full release on December 16, 2019. The player is tasked with colonizing planets, creating structures, and collecting resources. The character is called an Astroneer and the player can travel to planets to activate cores and complete the game. There are often rewards given to the player upon completion of core activation, most notably a suit and/or visor.

Atelier Ayesha: The Alchemist of Dusk DX	Atelier Ayesha: The Alchemist of Dusk is a Japanese role-playing video game developed by Gust Co. Ltd. The character designs are by Hidari. It is the fourteenth title in the Atelier series, coming after Atelier Meruru, but has a storyline independent from previous titles in the series. The game is the first installment in the Dusk storyline. An English language release was published in March 2013 by Tecmo Koei in western regions. A PlayStation Vita version titled Atelier Ayesha Plus: The Alchemist of Dusk was released on March 27, 2014 in Japan, January 13, 2015 in North America and January 14, 2015 in Europe. There is also a drama CD and novel based on the game.

Atelier Escha & Logy: Alchemists of the Dusk Sky DX	Atelier Escha & Logy: Alchemists of the Dusk Sky is a Japanese role-playing video game developed by Gust Co. Ltd. Given the project code "A15", it is the 15th game in the official Atelier series and the second installment of the Dusk storyline. Hidari remains as the character designer and the game runs on the LTGL engine. It was released in Japan on 27 June 2013.

Atelier Firis: The Alchemist and the Mysterious Journey	Atelier Firis: The Alchemist and the Mysterious Journey is a 2016 Japanese role-playing video game developed by Gust for the PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Microsoft Windows. It is the eighteenth main game in the Atelier series and the second game of the Mysterious storyline. It was released on North America and Europe on March 10, 2017, the following year. The enhanced version of the game titled Atelier Firis: The Alchemist and the Mysterious Journey DX was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and the Nintendo Switch on April 22, 2021.

Atelier Lulua: The Scion of Arland	Atelier Lulua: The Scion of Arland is a 2019 role-playing video game developed by Gust and published by Koei Tecmo for PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch and Windows. It is part of the Atelier series, and the fourth entry in the Arland subseries. Following trainee alchemist Lulua Frixell as she goes on a journey following the discovery of a magical book called the Alchemyriddle, gameplay features exploration and battles using turn-based combat, and alchemic synthesising for items and quest objectives.

Atelier Lydie & Suelle: Alchemists of the Mysterious Painting	Atelier Lydie & Suelle: The Alchemists and the Mysterious Paintings is a role-playing video game developed by Gust, and originally released in Japan for the PlayStation Vita and PlayStation 4 in December 2017. It was released worldwide in March 2018 for the PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch and Microsoft Windows. It is the nineteenth main entry in the Atelier series celebrating the 20 years of the franchise. It is also the third game of the Mysterious storyline and the last one in chronological order.

Atelier Marie Remake: The Alchemist of Salburg	Atelier Marie began development in 1996, with creator and designer Shinichi Yoshiike wanting a light-hearted fantasy. Artist Kohime Ohse created the character designs and in-game art. Reception of the game has been generally positive, with commentary focusing on its non-standard gameplay compared to other titles of its time. The remake saw praise for its art, but several noted its archaic elements. Following the success of Atelier Marie, Gust developed several follow-up games including two sequels. The Atelier series would become one of Gust's flagship products.

Atelier Meruru: The Apprentice of Arland	A port of the game titled Atelier Meruru DX for Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 was released on September 20, 2018 in Japan, and on December 4, 2018 in the West along with an additional Microsoft Windows release worldwide.

Atelier Rorona: The Alchemist of Arland	Atelier Rorona: The Alchemist of Arland is a Japanese role-playing video game developed by Gust Co. Ltd. It first released for the PlayStation 3 on June 25, 2009, in Japan and was later re-released under the PlayStation 3 the Best label (which means it is a best-seller in Japan) on September 23, 2010. The North American release followed on September 28, 2010, along with a European release on October 22, 2010 and an Australia release on October 28, 2010.

Atelier Ryza: Ever Darkness & the Secret Hideout	Atelier Ryza: Ever Darkness & the Secret Hideout is a role-playing video game developed by Gust, and originally released in Japan for the PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch and Microsoft Windows in September 2019. It was released in North America in October 2019 and rest of the world in November 2019 for the same consoles. It is the twenty-first main entry in the Atelier series.

Atelier Ryza 2: Lost Legends & the Secret Fairy	Atelier Ryza 2: Lost Legends & the Secret Fairy is a role-playing video game developed by Gust. It is the twenty-second main entry in the Atelier series, the second game of the Secret storyline and the first game of the series with a returning protagonist. It is the sequel to Atelier Ryza: Ever Darkness & the Secret Hideout.

Atelier Ryza 3: Alchemist of the End & the Secret Key	Atelier Ryza 3: Alchemist of the End & the Secret Key is a role-playing video game developed by Gust. It is the twenty-fourth main entry in the Atelier series, the third and final game of the Secret storyline, featuring the same protagonist from the two previous installments and celebrating the 25th anniversary of the franchise.

Atelier Shallie: Alchemists of the Dusk Sea DX	Atelier Shallie: Alchemists of the Dusk Sea is a 2014 Japanese role-playing video game developed by Gust for the PlayStation 3. It is the 16th main entry in Gust's Atelier series and is currently the final installment of the Dusk trilogy. The game was released in North America and Europe in March 2015.

Atelier Sophie: The Alchemist of the Mysterious Book	Atelier Sophie: The Alchemist of the Mysterious Book is a 2015 Japanese role-playing video game developed by Gust for the PlayStation 3 (only in Japan), PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita (digital-only) and Microsoft Windows. It is the 17th main game in the Atelier series and the first game of the Mysterious storyline, as well as the debut of Koei Tecmo taking over publishing rights for Western regions in place of NIS America. The enhanced version of the game titled Atelier Sophie: The Alchemist of the Mysterious Book DX was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and the Nintendo Switch on April 22, 2021.

Atelier Totori: The Adventurer of Arland	Atelier Totori: The Adventurer of Arland is a Japanese role-playing video game developed by Gust Co. Ltd. It was first released for PlayStation 3 on June 24, 2010 in Japan.

Atomic Heart	Atomic Heart is a first-person shooter video game developed by Russian game developer Mundfish and published by VK Play, Focus Entertainment, and 4Divinity. It was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on February 21, 2023. The game is set in an alternate history version of the Soviet Union, during the 1950s. Initially depicted as a retrofuturistic utopia, the game follows the quick collapse of the Soviet Union into a dystopia, after a robot uprising begins. Atomic Heart received mixed to positive reviews from critics.

A-Train Express	The first iteration of the A-Train series was released in December 1985 for the FM-7, NEC PC-8801, NEC PC-9801, X1 Turbo, MZ-2500, Famicom, and MSX2. A Microsoft Windows port followed in April 2000.

Attack on Titan	The game's visuals matches that of the anime series and it features one player fighting multiple enemies. The 3D Maneuvering Gear can be used to ascend to high areas.

Attack on Titan 2	The game covers the plot of the first 50 chapters of Attack on Titan (also covered by the first two seasons of the anime adaptation).

Attractio	Attractio is a puzzle-platform game by Mexican developers GameCoder Studios, Renderfarm Studios and publisher Bandai Namco Entertainment. Attractio takes place in the Entertainment Space Station (ESS), an artificial satellite orbiting Mars where players will solve deadly physics-based puzzles using gadgets that manipulate gravity. This futuristic puzzle platformer draws its gameplay inspiration from games like Portal, while also being inspired by futuristic stories like those similar to Running Man. The game received mixed reviews.

Auto Chess	This elimination style game features elements derived from Dota 2. Up to eight players are assigned to their own chessboard upon which their "home" battles are fought. Each player controls a character called a courier, which tracks the player's health, gold (displayed as the courier's mana), and experience level. At the beginning of every round, an enemy team appears on the player's board (home games) and the player's team appears on an enemy's board (away games). The teams fight in an automatically generated battle over which the player has no direct control- hence Auto.

Aven Colony	Aven Colony is a city-building strategy video game developed by Mothership Entertainment and published by Team17. The Beta was released on September 8, 2016 on Microsoft Windows. The main storyline revolves around the human colonisation of an alien planet, in which a new colony must be built in order to survive.

Marvel's Avengers	Marvel's Avengers is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Crystal Dynamics and originally published by Square Enix. Based on the Marvel Comics superhero team the Avengers, Marvel's Avengers is mainly inspired by the Marvel Cinematic Universe's iteration of the group. Additionally, it incorporates elements from the team's comic book. The plot follows Inhuman teenager Kamala Khan, who gains superpowers during A-Day, a celebratory day for the Avengers, which ends in tragedy following a terrorist attack. Blamed for the disaster, the Avengers disband and allow science corporation A.I.M. to take their place. Five years later, when A.I.M. threatens to eliminate all Inhuman individuals, Kamala embarks on a quest to reassemble the Avengers to combat this new enemy.

AVICII Invector	Avicii Invector allows the player to journey across six different worlds. The player has to race through the music track and is tasked with matching the "musical beat". The game features 25 of Avicii's songs. Encore Edition featured 35 of Avicii's songs, added 10 songs (including "Peace of Mind", "Freak" and the chart topping "SOS") and a new world.

Away: Journey to the Unexpected	After his parents disappear and monsters break into his grandparents' house, a teenage boy goes on an adventure to rescue his parents.  Away: Journey to the Unexpected is an action adventure game played from a first-person perspective.  The levels are procedurally generated, and each one has an item that allows players to recruit any non-player character from that area by successfully navigating a dialogue tree.  Choosing the wrong dialogue option makes that character incapable of being recruited.  Players can explore dungeons, collect loot, engage in first-person hack and slash combat.  Recruited characters can temporarily replace the child in combat and use their attacks.  To engage the end boss in battle, players must first recruit all eight of the recruitable characters.  Roguelite elements streamline the process somewhat by unlocking the ability to fast travel to specific areas if they die.

AWAY: The Survival Series	"AWAY: The Survival Series" is a story-driven adventure game where players assume the role of a tiny sugar glider navigating through a nature documentary-like setting. The gameplay involves gliding among trees, combating dangerous predators, and exploring picturesque environments on a quest to save the player character's family. The game allows for exploration either through a main storyline or by embarking on side quests that unveil the concealed mysteries of the new world. Players have the option to confront larger foes, hunt smaller prey, or use stealth and agility to evade apex predators undetected.

A Way Out	A Way Out is a cooperative action-adventure video game developed by Hazelight Studios and published by Electronic Arts. It is the second video game to be directed by Josef Fares after Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons. A Way Out does not have a single-player option; it is playable on local or online split screen co-op between two players. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on March 23, 2018, selling over a million copies in two weeks.

Awesomenauts Assemble	Awesomenauts was a multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) video game developed by Dutch video game development company Ronimo Games. The game was released for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles in May 2012, and for Microsoft Windows systems in August 2012. It was later ported to OS X and Linux. Another version of the game, Awesomenauts Assemble!, incorporating all the changes and additions available on Windows, OS X and Linux, was released for the PlayStation 4 in March 2014 and for the Xbox One in September 2016. In May 2017, the PC version of the game transitioned to a free-to-play title, incorporating an in-game currency and reward system to allow players to gain access to new characters and other customization aspects. In September 2019, Ronimo Games announced that development on the game has stopped indefinitely. Despite this, Awesomenauts was still available to play, until the servers went offline on September 15, 2023 due to Ronimo's bankruptcy.

Axiom Verge	Axiom Verge is a metroidvania video game by American indie developer Thomas Happ. The game was originally released in March 2015 in North America and April 2015 in Europe and Australia for PlayStation 4. It was released in May 2015 for Linux, OS X, and Windows. A PlayStation Vita version was released in April 2016. The Wii U and Xbox One versions were released in North America and Europe in September 2016. A Nintendo Switch version was released in October 2017.

Azkend 2: The World Beneath	It follows Jules, who is an adventurer and gets caught up in a maelstrom, making her become stranded in a mysterious land. The story is told through entries of a journal, retelling her journey. The player's job is to escape one location after another, while using various objects that can be found. The gameplay consists of connecting symbols in a usual match-3 play on hexagonal tiles in overall 60 levels.

Azur Lane: Crosswave	Azur Lane (Simplified Chinese: ; traditional Chinese: ; pinyin: Bln Hngxin; lit. 'Deep Blue Course') is a side-scrolling shoot 'em up video game created by Chinese developers Shanghai Manjuu and Xiamen Yongshi, released in 2017 for the iOS and Android operating systems. Set in an alternate timeline of World War II, players engage in side-scrolling shooter gameplay, using female moe anthropomorphic characters based on warships from the war's major participants. Other gameplay elements, like customizing a dorm and in-game characters, are also present.

Azure Striker Gunvolt 3	Set in a futuristic world in which beings known as adepts coexist with humanity, the game follows a powerful adept named Gunvolt, who upon following a botched assassin attempt, leaves the organization that he works for to become a freelance agent. Across the game, Gunvolt attempts to use his adept powers to dismantle the Sumeragi Group, a peace-keeping cooperation who in turn, is secretly responsible abusing countless adepts. 

Azure Striker Gunvolt: Striker Pack	The gameplay builds from that of the original game. The main character, Gunvolt, controls nearly identically to the previous game, using a gun to lock onto enemies and then using his electric field in order to attack them. Players can also control Copen, a character that played a major role in the previous game. He has a different control scheme to Gunvolt that focuses on his dash attack. Copen can dash into an enemy and slam into it, which locks onto the enemy and allows Copen to shoot it with targeted attacks. He can also use powers from defeated bosses, similar to the Mega Man franchise.

Babylon's Fall	Babylon's Fall was an action role-playing game developed by PlatinumGames and published by Square Enix. The game was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, and Windows on March 3, 2022. 

Backbone	Set in a dystopian version of Vancouver, Canada, populated by anthropomorphic creatures, Tails Noir follows Howard Lotor, a raccoon and private detective tasked with solving mysteries.

Back to the Future: The Game  30th Anniversary Edition	Back to the Future: The Game is an episodic graphic adventure video game based on the Back to the Future film franchise. The game was developed and published by Telltale Games as part of a licensing deal with Universal Pictures. Bob Gale, the co-creator, co-writer, and co-producer of the film trilogy, assisted Telltale in writing the game's story. Original actors Michael J. Fox and Christopher Lloyd allowed the developers to use their likenesses in the game for the lead characters Marty McFly and Doc Brown, respectively. Although Lloyd reprises his role as Doc, A.J. Locascio plays the role of Marty, while Fox later appeared to voice two cameo roles in the final episode, reprising his role as future versions of Marty McFly in addition to playing his forefather William.

Badland: Game of the Year Edition	Badland (stylized BADLAND) is a mobile video game developed by Frogmind Games and first released on the iOS and Android platforms in 2013. It was released on Windows Phone 8 in June 2014. There is also a Game of the Year Edition that was released in May 2015 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Xbox One, Wii U and Steam for Linux, Microsoft Windows and OS X, and in August 2021 for Nintendo Switch.

Bad North	Bad North is a real-time strategy video game developed by Plausible Concept (a game studio in Malm, Sweden, founded by Oskar Stlberg and Richard Meredith) and published by Raw Fury. The game was released on August 20, 2018, for the Nintendo Switch, then for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on August 28. A Microsoft Windows version was released on October 16, 2018. Versions for Android and iOS followed on October 16, 2019.

Baja: Edge of Control HD	The game is targeted as an arcade off road racer, very similar to Colin McRae: Dirt and is based on endurance racing across the desert. Multiplayer options include playing other players through Xbox Live, PlayStation Network, System Link and up to 4 player split screen.

Balan Wonderworld	Balan Wonderworld is a 2021 platform game developed by Arzest and published by Square Enix. Assuming the role of two children guided by a magical being called Balan, the player explores twelve worlds themed after the hearts of troubled individuals. They explore levels, collecting items to progress to further areas, and using a variety of powers unlocked using themed costumes.

Baldo	Inspired by The Legend of Zelda and Studio Ghibli's films, it is an action adventure RPG, with puzzles, exploration and combat, set in a crafted hand-drawn open world.

Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance	Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance is a 2001 action role-playing video game developed by Snowblind Studios and published by Interplay Entertainment subsidiary Black Rock Studios for the PlayStation 2 and the Xbox consoles, with High Voltage Software handling the GameCube port, and Magic Pockets developing the Game Boy Advance version. CD Projekt was developing a version for Microsoft Windows, but was ultimately cancelled. In 2021, a 4K port of the game was released for the Xbox One, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Nintendo Switch and PC.

Baldur's Gate: Enhanced Edition	Baldur's Gate: Enhanced Edition is a remaster of the 1998 role-playing video game Baldur's Gate, developed by Overhaul Games, a division of Beamdog, and published by Atari. It was released for Microsoft Windows on November 28, 2012, with additional releases between 2012 and 2014 for iPad, OS X, Android and Linux and most recently for Xbox One, PlayStation 4, and Nintendo Switch on October 15, 2019. The remaster combines the original game, Baldur's Gate, with its expansion Baldur's Gate: Tales of the Sword Coast, retaining the original elements from both (story, in-game locations, gameplay and characters), while including additions, a separate arena adventure entitled The Black Pits, and a number of improvements some of which were imported from Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn.

Baldur's Gate II: Enhanced Edition	Baldur's Gate II: Enhanced Edition is a remaster of the role-playing video game Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn and its expansion Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal. The game was launched on Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X. Baldur's Gate II: Enhanced Edition features new content and widescreen compatibility.

Baldur's Gate: Siege of Dragonspear	Baldur's Gate: Siege of Dragonspear is an expansion pack for the role-playing video game Baldur's Gate: Enhanced Edition developed and published by Beamdog. The expansion is the first new original content to the Baldur's Gate series released after more than 10 years, and its plot takes place between the events of Baldur's Gate and Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn. Gameplay remained similar to Baldur's Gate: Enhanced Edition, although a class, companions and areas have been added. Siege of Dragonspear received mixed to positive reviews by video game publications who appreciated the return to the franchise after a long hiatus. It received backlash from some consumers who criticized the general quality of the writing and the introduction of a transgender non-playable character.

The Banner Saga	The Banner Saga is a tactical role-playing video game developed by Stoic and published by Versus Evil. It was released for personal computers and mobile phones in 2014, for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in 2016 and for Nintendo Switch in 2018.

The Banner Saga 2	The Banner Saga 2 is a tactical role-playing video game developed by Stoic and published by Versus Evil. It is the sequel to The Banner Saga, and the second part of a trilogy of games.

The Banner Saga 3	The Banner Saga 3 is a tactical role-playing video game developed by Stoic and published by Versus Evil for macOS, Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. It is the final installment in a trilogy of games that began with The Banner Saga (2014) and The Banner Saga 2 (2016).

The Bard's Tale: Remastered and Resnarkled	After the first three games, work on a fourth installment began but it became an unrelated game, Dragon Wars, at a very late point in development due to rights issues when Interplay parted ways with their publisher. The series was not continued for many years and is thus still often referred to as the "Bard's Tale trilogy". In 2018, Alex Santa Maria stated that The Bard's Tale was "One of the most classic franchises in PC gaming".

The Bard's Tale IV: Director's Cut	Some two centuries after the now-legendary events from the original trilogy, one Bishop Henred of the Church of the Swordfather (a church militant and now the predominant religion in the land of Caith in which the games are set) has moved the faith to a more extreme and radically xenophobic outlook. Magic-users and non-humans such as dwarves, elves, and the goblinoid trow are now persecuted even though some still live among humans.

A Bastard's Tale	The game features basic pixilated-base graphics and features  the player defeating fifteen different enemy characters which are having their own distinct features, throughout five levels.

Bastion	Bastion is an action role-playing video game developed by independent developer Supergiant Games and originally published in 2011 by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. In the game, the player controls "the Kid" as he moves through floating, fantasy-themed environments and fights enemies of various types. It features a dynamic voiceover from a narrator (Logan Cunningham), and is presented as a two-dimensional game with an isometric camera and a hand-painted, colorful art style. Bastion's story follows the Kid as he collects special shards of rock to power a structure, the Bastion, in the wake of an apocalyptic Calamity.

Basement Crawl	Basement Crawl is a maze-based action game with some strategic elements. Bloober Team's main inspirations were Spy vs. Spy and Bomberman, and gameplay revolves around setting up traps (self-detonated or activated by characters approaching it or stepping on it without noticing) to hurt other players. 
It's focused on multiplayer, but basic single player campaigns with bots to fill in for missing characters will be available too.

Batman: Arkham Knight	Batman: Arkham Knight is a 2015 action-adventure game developed by Rocksteady Studios and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. Based on the DC Comics superhero Batman, it is the successor to the 2013 video game Batman: Arkham Origins, a direct sequel to Batman: Arkham City (2011) and the fourth main installment in the Batman: Arkham series. Written by Sefton Hill, Ian Ball and Martin Lancaster, Arkham Knight is inspired by the long-running comic book mythos. Set nine months after the events of Arkham City, the game's main storyline follows Batman as he confronts Scarecrow, who has launched an attack on Gotham City and caused a citywide evacuation. Scarecrow, with the help of the mysterious Arkham Knight, plots to unite all of Gotham's criminals in an attempt to finally destroy Batman.

Batman: Return to Arkham	Batman: Arkham, also known as the Arkhamverse is a series of action-adventure video games based on the DC Comics character Batman, developed by Rocksteady Studios and WB Games Montral, and published originally by Eidos Interactive and currently by Warner Bros. Games. The franchise consists of four main installments and a spin-off , along with four smaller titles for mobile devices, a virtual reality game, tie-in comic books, and an animated film. The continuity established by the games is often referred to as the Arkhamverse.

Batman: The Enemy Within	Though Telltale Games shut down in 2018, the licenses for the Batman and The Enemy Within games were acquired by Athlon Games, and both games were rereleased by LCG Entertainment under a new Telltale Games label as the combined "Shadows Edition" in December 2019.

Batman: The Telltale Series	Batman: The Telltale Series is a 2016 episodic point-and-click graphic adventure video game developed and published by Telltale Games and distributed by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment under its DC Entertainment label. The game is based on the DC Comics character Batman, created by Bob Kane and Bill Finger, though not tied to any previous adaptation of the work in film or other media. Upon release, it received mixed reviews, which praised the atmosphere, action sequences, and faithfulness to the Batman mythos, but criticized it for technical issues and plot. A second season, titled Batman: The Enemy Within, was released in 2017, and was viewed as an improvement over the original.

Battle Chasers: Nightwar	The game received positive reviews from critics, who cited the game's graphics and visual style as a strong point, but criticized its difficulty balance and high level of grinding.

Battlefield 1	Battlefield 1 is a first-person shooter game developed by DICE and published by Electronic Arts. It is the tenth installment in the Battlefield series and the first main entry in the series since Battlefield 4 in 2013. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in October 2016.

Battlefield 2042	Battlefield 2042 is a first-person shooter, developed by DICE and published by Electronic Arts. The twelfth main installment in the Battlefield series, it was released on November 19, 2021, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. Unlike previous games in the series, Battlefield 2042 is solely multiplayer and does not have a single-player campaign. It features support for cross-platform play, a first in the series. Battlefield 2042 received mixed reviews from critics and a negative reception from players for its technical issues, lack of features, and certain changes to the gameplay. The game failed to meet the sales expectations of Electronic Arts.

Battlefield 4	Battlefield 4 is a 2013 first-person shooter video game developed by DICE and published by Electronic Arts. The game was released in October and November for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One, and is the sequel to 2011's Battlefield 3, taking place six years later during the fictional "War of 2020".

Battlefield V	Battlefield V is a 2018 first-person shooter game developed by DICE and published by Electronic Arts. The game is the successor to 2016's Battlefield 1 and the eleventh main installment in the Battlefield series. It is based on World War II and is a thematic continuation of its World War I-based precursor Battlefield 1. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in November 2018.

Battlefield Hardline	Battlefield Hardline is a first-person shooter video game developed by Visceral Games and published by Electronic Arts. It was released in March 2015 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox 360, and Xbox One. Unlike the previous games in the Battlefield series, Hardline focuses on crime, heist and policing elements instead of military warfare.

Battlestar Galactica Deadlock	Battlestar Galactica Deadlock is a turn-based strategy video game developed by Black Lab Games and published by Slitherine Software for Windows on August 31, 2017. It is based on the science fiction franchise Battlestar Galactica.

Battle Garegga Rev.2016	It was followed by a spiritual successor titled Battle Bakraid in 1999.

Battle of the Bulge	The game has a Metacritic rating of 85% based on 13 critic reviews. The PC version received a positive review from 4Players.

Battlestar Galactica: Deadlock	Battlestar Galactica Deadlock is a turn-based strategy video game developed by Black Lab Games and published by Slitherine Software for Windows on August 31, 2017. It is based on the science fiction franchise Battlestar Galactica.

Battle Worlds: Kronos	Battle Worlds: Kronos is a turn-based strategy video game developed by King Art Games for the PC platforms in 2013. It is considered a spiritual successor to the Battle Isle series.

Battlezone	Battlezone is an arcade game released by Rebellion in 2016. It is an update of the original 1980 arcade game.  The game was one of the launch titles for PlayStation VR in October 2016.

Bayonetta	Bayonetta is a 2009 action-adventure hack and slash video game developed by PlatinumGames and published by Sega. It was released for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in Japan in October 2009, and in North America and Europe in January 2010. It was released on Wii U in September 2014, Windows in April 2017, Nintendo Switch in February 2018, and PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in February 2020.

Bear With Me: The Lost Robots	Bear with Me is a point-and-click adventure game developed by Exordium Games. It is described as an "episodic noir adventure game", and was released in three episodes, first in August 2016, final in October 2017. A prequel, The Lost Robots, was released in July 2019. The game draws inspiration from film noir and features Amber and her friend - detective Ted E. Bear, who are set on an adventure to find Amber's missing brother Flint. Bear with Me: The Complete Collection, a compilation of the first three episodes, was released on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, Linux, MacOS, and Microsoft Windows on July 9, 2019.

Beautiful Desolation	After an alien ship lands on Earth in 1980, the technological and social upheaval radically transforms human civilization.  Ten years later, brothers Mark and Don Leslie investigate the ship after having their lives ruined.  They are sent into the distant future by its security systems and must figure out a way back.  Beautiful Desolation is a point-and-click adventure game played from an isometric perspective.  Players control Mark as he attempts to solve the various issues facing the new civilizations, such as retrieving lost objects or mediating a dispute.  In return, they collect technology that they hope will return them to their present.  Choices made when solving puzzles or during dialogue do not lock out players from the ending, though they can affect what ending players see.  Combat is very rare; players can optionally participate in arena battles to advance one story line.

Bedlam	The game received mixed to negative reviews from critics, who praised its comedic writing but criticized its lackluster gameplay and high amount of bugs.

Behind the Frame: The Finest Scenery	With an art style reminiscent of Studio Ghibli, the game sees the player as an artist on the verge of finishing the final art piece for a gallery submission. As the painting nears completion, the player slowly uncovers an emotional history backed by chance and artistry.

Beholder: Complete Edition	Beholder is inspired by the dystopian works of George Orwell, Aldous Huxley, and Ray Bradbury.

Below	Below is an action-adventure game viewed from a top-down perspective with roguelike elements. The player-character is a "tiny warrior exploring the depths of a remote island". The game is about exploration, though that goal is contingent upon the character's survival. Microsoft's Phil Spencer described the game at E3 2013 as a "creative take on roguelike gameplay" in a "mysterious world". The environments are randomly generated. The game is designed to be difficult, with "brutal but fair combat" and permanent death.

Ben 10	The franchise has garnered considerable critical acclaim, securing three Emmy Awards. It encompasses five primary television series, five feature films, and numerous video games. It ranks as Cartoon Network's second longest existing franchise. Furthermore, Ben 10 has inspired a line of toys produced initially by Bandai for the franchise's first four series and later by Playmates Toys for the reboot. Overall, the franchise has amassed over $6 billion in retail sales.

Bendy and the Ink Machine	Gameloft

Berserk and the Band of the Hawk	Berserk and the Band of the Hawk mixes the hack-and-slash gameplay of Koei Tecmo's Dynasty Warriors series of video games, with the setting and characters from the Berserk manga series by Kentaro Miura.

Beyond a Steel Sky	The game was released on 26 June 2020 on the Apple Arcade subscription service for iOS and tvOS, and on July 16 on Steam for macOS, Windows, and Linux, and on Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5,  Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S on November 30, 2021 and published by Microids. Following its release, it received positive reviews from critics.

Beyond Blue	The game's main character is Mirai, a deep-sea researcher who leads a research team to investigate ocean life, such as whales. The game combines educational and narrative aspects.

Beyond Eyes	Beyond Eyes is an adventure game developed by Tiger & Squid and published by Team17.

Beyond: Two Souls	Beyond: Two Souls is an action-adventure game developed by Quantic Dream and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. It was released on 8 October 2013 for PlayStation 3 and for PlayStation 4 on 24 November 2015. A Windows port self-published by Quantic Dream was released on 22 July 2019.

Big Pharma	In Big Pharma the player takes the role as the manager of a pharmaceutical company, producing medication from raw materials. Raw materials have intrinsic positive (e.g., "Reduces coughs") and negative (e.g., "Induces drowsiness") effects that present themselves when the material is within a set concentration range, with possible concentrations ranging on a 0-to-20 scale. Most of the positive benefits can be enhanced to more desirable effects, or negative side effects can be outright removed, by bringing the material to a specific concentration range and applying an indicated process, some further requiring the addition of a catalyst material which itself carries positive and negative effects. Materials can also be mixed to combine positive and negative benefits to create more potent drugs. The goal in the mixing and preparation of materials is to achieve drugs that have their positive effects as close to their maximum potency concentration while either eliminating side effects or bringing the material's concentration as far away from the side effects' maximum potency levels.

The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth	The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is a roguelike indie game designed by Edmund McMillen and developed and published by Nicalis. Rebirth was released for Linux, Microsoft Windows, OS X, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita in November 2014, for Xbox One, New Nintendo 3DS and Wii U in July 2015, for iOS in January 2017 and for Nintendo Switch in March 2017. The PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S versions were released in November 2021.

The Binding of Isaac: Repentance	The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is a roguelike indie game designed by Edmund McMillen and developed and published by Nicalis. Rebirth was released for Linux, Microsoft Windows, OS X, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita in November 2014, for Xbox One, New Nintendo 3DS and Wii U in July 2015, for iOS in January 2017 and for Nintendo Switch in March 2017. The PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S versions were released in November 2021.

Biomutant	Biomutant is an action role-playing game developed by Swedish developer Experiment 101 and published by THQ Nordic. The game was released on May 25, 2021, for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. Versions of the game for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S were released in September 2022. A port for the Nintendo Switch is scheduled for release in May 2024. The game received mixed reviews from critics and sold 1 million units by August 2021.

BioShock: The Collection	BioShock: The Collection is a compilation of the BioShock video games, developed by Blind Squirrel Games and published by 2K Games. The Collection features upgraded versions of BioShock, BioShock 2, and BioShock Infinite, with new textures and support for higher resolution displays and framerates. The compilation was released in September 2016 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Windows; versions for macOS and Nintendo Switch followed in August 2017 and May 2020, respectively.

Bit.Trip	Reminiscent of the classic video game Pong, Bit.Trip Beat (2009) involves players moving an onscreen paddle in order to bounce off waves of incoming blocks to the beat of the music. As the player progresses through the game, the patterns of blocks become increasingly complex, but players can judge how well they are doing through changes in the graphics and music. The game is played by tilting the Wii Remote to move the paddle, via stylus or circle pad on the 3DS, via touch on iOS devices, or via keyboard or mouse on PC. Bit.Trip Beat also features up to 4-player cooperative multiplayer.

Black Book	Taking place in 19th century Russia, the game is heavily inspired by Russian and Komi folklore narrative is based on Bailichkas. To ensure the authenticity in depiction of myths and real-life locations, the developers worked alongside Russian ethnographers.

Black Desert	In 2018, Pearl Abyss began work on a prequel to the timeline of Black Desert, titled Crimson Desert, but during development it became a separate, stand alone IP with a different storyline and new characters.

Blackguards 2	Battles are turn-based and take place on a hexagonally gridded playing field. Units can topple stacked boxes, activate traps, cast spells, and drop chandeliers on enemies to attack them. The player comes across allies as they progress through the story, which each have skill trees and can be equipped with weapons or gear.

Blackhole: Complete Edition	The game was re-released as Blackhole: Complete Edition on June 15, 2016. This version includes the fully updated base game, 3 DLCs (Testing Lab, Secret of the Entity and Challenge Vault), digital artbook and soundtrack, developer diaries, first prototype of the game, printable high resolution artwork, wallpapers, and collector cards. The same version was ported to the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles on August 8, 2017. And is also compatible with PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X and Series S.

Blacksad: Under the Skin	Blacksad: Under the Skin is Pendulo's first game based on a license and its first to use fully 3D graphics. The project began in late 2016 at the suggestion of Microds, part of the same media conglomerate that owns Blacksad publisher Dargaud. 

Black the Fall	Black the Fall (stylized as BLAK THE FALL) is a puzzle-platform video game developed by Sand Sailor Studio and published by Square Enix for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch. The player controls a machinist in a dystopic world inspired by the Romanian Revolution, solving environmental puzzles and avoiding death.

Blade Arcus from Shining EX	Blade Arcus from Shining EX () was released on November 26, 2015 for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4, adding new characters. The game was ported to Steam with online lobbies added on July 28, 2016 under the title Blade Arcus from Shining: Battle Arena.

Blade Runner: Enhanced Edition	Blade Runner is a point-and-click adventure game developed by Westwood Studios and published by Virgin Interactive for Microsoft Windows, released in November 1997. The game is not a direct adaptation of the 1982 Ridley Scott film Blade Runner but is instead a "sidequel", telling an original story, which runs parallel to the film's plot, occasionally intersecting with it.

Blade Strangers	Blade Strangers ( ) is a 2D crossover fighting game developed by Studio Saizensen and published by Nicalis, released on PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch and Microsoft Windows via Steam in August 2018, as well as a Japanese arcade release. It features one-on-one combat between several characters from various independent video game franchises.

Bladestorm: Nightmare	The game opens with a scene showing two anonymous mercenaries fighting each other during a clash between French and English troops. They converse as they fight, setting the tone of the game as they discuss the nature of mercenaries (who change sides as it suits them), how there is no real right or wrong in the war, and how time seems to be standing still (even though the game covers events across the entirety of the Hundred Years' War, the game does not strictly follow chronology; for example, the player can fight alongside Gilles de Rais in one battle and with John Chandos in the next).

Blair Witch	The game focuses on survival horror mechanics and stealth and is played from a first person perspective, requiring the player to use items such as a camera, cellphone, flashlight or Ellis' dog, Bullet, to track and follow the trail of missing nine-year old Peter Shannon while fending off shadowy creatures. Along the way, players will find strange wooden dolls, photographs and cassette tapes and will also be tasked with solving puzzles. Like the film, it integrates the found-footage subgenre with the gameplay and story, often through the use of cassette tapes.

Blasphemous	Blasphemous is a Metroidvania video game developed by Spanish studio The Game Kitchen and published by Team17. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch on 10 September 2019, with Warp Digital handling the console ports. Versions for macOS and Linux were released on 21 September 2020. A version for Amazon Luna was released on 20 October 2020. It began as a Kickstarter campaign in 2017. A sequel, titled Blasphemous 2, was released on 24 August 2023.

Blaster Master Zero	As in the NES original, the game's plot centers around Jason Frudnick, a young man who descends into a subterranean world to rescue a frog creature named Fred. Players control Jason behind the wheel of a tank vehicle called SOPHIA, exploring large environments and defeating various mutant enemies. Jason can also exit the tank to explore various areas into which the tank cannot venture. In addition to redone graphics and sound, Blaster Master Zero also adds various tweaks and features not seen in the NES game. A sequel, Blaster Master Zero 2, was released in 2019 with a third game Blaster Master Zero 3 in 2021.

Blaster Master Zero 2	The game plays similarly to the previous game. Players control the SOPHIA vehicle in the side-scrolling levels, exploring environments and defeating enemies using the tank's various weapons. The player character Jason can also hop out of the tank to enter various passages and doors, where the view switches to an overhead perspective. Players can find various upgrades to the tank that may allow access to previously inaccessible areas. Throughout the game the player also encounters various boss characters that must be defeated to progress to later levels.

BlazBlue: Central Fiction	The international release of Central Fiction did not receive an English dub, making it the only BlazBlue title not dubbed.

BlazBlue: Chrono Phantasma Extend	An updated version of the game titled BlazBlue: Chrono Phantasma Extend, dubbed as BlazBlue: Chrono Phantasma 2.0 in the Arcade version, was originally released for Arcades in October 2014, and for the PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in April 2015. It was released on June 30, 2015, in North America, with the European region version releasing on October 23, 2015.

BlazBlue: Cross Tag Battle	BlazBlue: Cross Tag Battle is a 2D crossover fighting game developed and published by Arc System Works, first released for PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch and Windows in 2018. Cross Tag Battle features characters from different series, including BlazBlue, Persona 4 Arena, Under Night In-Birth and RWBY. After the game was released, characters from Arcana Heart, Senran Kagura and Akatsuki Blitzkampf were added as downloadable content. An arcade port was released in 2019 in Japan, a version for Amazon Luna was made available in 2021, and the Special Edition with all post-launch content was released for Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S in 2023. The game received mostly positive reviews, with praise for the visuals, music, online functionality and mechanics. However, it was criticised for lack of overall content at launch and DLC practices.

Blazerush	BlazeRush is an arcade racing game where players compete with each other on various thematic tracks. The main goal of the race is to cross the finish line first. During the race, players can pick up various weapons with different characteristics. Weapons can be used both for attack and defense. You can also find a number of boosters, such as nitro, rocket and pulse variations on the road.
Unlike most traditional races, BlazeRush puts emphasis on split-screen local multiplayer, allowing 4 players at once, as well as the possibility to drop into the game at any time.

Blazing Chrome	Blazing Chrome received generally favorable reviews from critics, being frequently compared to the Contra games.

Bleed	Bleed is a platform game that focuses on combat. In the game's story mode, the player must navigate seven levels, each ending with a boss battle. The player can carry weapons that are used to defeat the enemies that populate each level. Weapons can be fired in any direction using the mouse or a controller's analog stick. The player can equip up to two weapons at a time and switch between them freely, and the player can change their equipped weapons at any time by pausing the game. The player can also jump to avoid obstacles and reach platforms. After initially jumping off of the ground, the player can jump up to two more times in mid-air or off of nearby walls. Bleed also allows the player to slow time briefly in order to dodge hard-to-avoid hazards.

Bleed 2	Bleed is a platform game that focuses on combat. In the game's story mode, the player must navigate seven levels, each ending with a boss battle. The player can carry weapons that are used to defeat the enemies that populate each level. Weapons can be fired in any direction using the mouse or a controller's analog stick. The player can equip up to two weapons at a time and switch between them freely, and the player can change their equipped weapons at any time by pausing the game. The player can also jump to avoid obstacles and reach platforms. After initially jumping off of the ground, the player can jump up to two more times in mid-air or off of nearby walls. Bleed also allows the player to slow time briefly in order to dodge hard-to-avoid hazards.

Bloodborne	Bloodborne is a 2015 action role-playing game developed by FromSoftware and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. Bloodborne follows the player's character, a Hunter, through the decrepit Gothic, Victorian-erainspired city of Yharnam, whose inhabitants are afflicted with a blood-borne disease which transforms the residents, called Yharnamites, into horrific beasts. Attempting to find the source of the plague, the player's character unravels the city's mysteries while fighting beasts and cosmic beings.

Blood Bowl 2	The game uses a new engine and removes the real-time mode found in the previous game, making the game purely turn-based. It also introduces the Bretonnian as a new playable race, which was developed out of a fan-developed rulebook. The game features both a solo campaign and a multiplayer mode, with the solo campaign featuring the human team, the Reikland Reavers. Initially eight races are playable, but additional races were available as preorder bonus and downloadable content, in addition to the Legendary Edition.

Blood Bowl 3	Blood Bowl 3 is a turn-based fantasy sports video game developed by Cyanide Studios and published by Nacon. It is a sequel to the 2015 video game Blood Bowl 2, based on the Blood Bowl board game by Games Workshop and is the third Blood Bowl game created by Cyanide. The game was released on 23 February 2023 for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S, with a Nintendo Switch port to follow sometime later in 2023.

Bloodstained: Curse of the Moon 2	The game received largely positive reviews from critics praising the game's visuals and gameplay.

Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night	Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night is a Metroidvania-styled video game developed by Japanese indie studio ArtPlay and published by 505 Games. The game's development was led by former Castlevania series producer Koji Igarashi and is considered a spiritual successor to the series. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch, in June 2019, for Amazon Luna in October 2020, for Android and iOS in December 2020, and for Stadia in July 2021.

Bloons TD 5	Bloons Tower Defense (also known as Bloons TD or BTD) is a series of tower defense games under the Bloons series created and produced by Ninja Kiwi. The game was initially developed as a browser game, built upon the Adobe Flash platform and released in mid 2007. Later games in the series expanded to support various mobile platforms, including Android, iOS, Windows Phone, PlayStation Portable, Nintendo DSi, Windows, Linux and MacOS. Games in the Bloons series older than Bloons TD 6 are available through the Ninja Kiwi Archive on Steam.

Blue Reflection	The game is the final game in Gust's "Beautiful Girls Festival" project, which also includes Atelier Firis and Nights of Azure 2. It was produced by Junzo Hosoi, organized by Keiichi Sigsawa, Ysaku Igarashi, and Kouji Natsumi, and supervised by Mel Kishida, who also designed the characters. It is intended to depict female youth in a true-to-life way, focusing on the concepts of interaction between girls and personal growth through sharing experiences with people.

Blue Reflection: Second Light	It follows a young teenage girl named Ao Hoshizaki, who awakens with three other girls in a mysterious school surrounded by water. Having lost their memories, the girls begin their quest to uncover the mystery of who they are and why they are together in this place. As Ao, the player can craft items for use in combat and structures around the school to aid in game play, talk and interact with the cast of characters, and explore environments known as "heartscapes" to fight Demons using their newly-gained magical girl powers.

Blues and Bullets	Blues and Bullets is an episodic alt-history noir video game developed and published by A Crowd of Monsters on Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux, Xbox One and PlayStation 4. The first two episodes of the five-episode game were released in July 2015 and March 2016, and the remaining three episodes will likely never be released, as developer A Crowd of Monsters ceased operations in 2016.

Bokosuka Wars II	The game was responsible for laying the foundations for the tactical role-playing game genre, or the "simulation RPG" genre as it is known in Japan, with its blend of role-playing and strategy game elements. The game has also variously been described as an early example of an action role-playing game, an early prototype real-time strategy game, and a unique reverse tower defense game. In its time, the game was considered a major success in Japan.

Bokuhime Project	The game was directed by Tatsuya Shiina and written by Kento Jobana, with art by Fumika Matsushima, and was originally conceived as an action game, but replanned as an adventure game due to budget concerns. Initially teased in 2017, the project was halted as the publisher was uncertain about the size of the market for a game about cross-dressing; development was eventually greenlit after they had gauged interest through Twitter and built a following by serializing Daukokudo Ikuya's manga Bokuhime-sama to Otome Shugi. Other related media include three short audio dramas and an upcoming short story; Jobana has also mentioned that he wants to develop a sequel to the game set in the Meiji era (18681912).

Bomber Crew	The player gives commands to their crew and takes them through a campaign of reconnaissance, supply drops and/or bombing missions, set in World War II on a four-engine bomber aircraft resembling the Avro Lancaster. New upgrades and equipment become unlocked, and crew members can gain new skills as the game progresses. The gameplay has been compared to FTL: Faster Than Light. The game features permadeath on the player's crew.

Book of Demons	The world created in the game relates to the classics of hack and slash genre. The action takes place in the Paperverse, more specifically in the dungeons beneath the cathedral standing in Town. In the depths of the maze under the cathedral, a new evil has awakened and threatens the lives of the locals. Their only hope is the help of a wandering hero, the player's character, who starts the crusade against the Ultimate Evil.

The Book of Unwritten Tales 2	The Book of Unwritten Tales 2 is a comedy point-and-click adventure video game created by the German developer King Art Games. The game, a sequel to The Book of Unwritten Tales, was published by Nordic Games on 20 February 2015 for Linux, Microsoft Windows and OS X. Console ports for the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One were released in September 2015. The PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions were released exclusively as digital downloads. The Wii U version was released on 7 June 2016 in Europe and North America. A Nintendo Switch version was announced, and released on 5 February 2019.

Borderlands 3	Borderlands 3 is a 2019 action role-playing first-person shooter video game developed by Gearbox Software and published by 2K. It is a sequel to 2012's Borderlands 2, and the fourth entry in the main Borderlands series. Borderlands 3 was released on 13 September 2019 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, and released for macOS on 30 October 2019. A Stadia port was released on 17 December 2019. Versions for the Xbox Series X and Series S and PlayStation 5 including free upgrades for users on the prior console versions were released on 10 and 12 November 2020, respectively. A Nintendo Switch version was released on 6 October 2023.

Borderlands: Game of the Year Edition	Borderlands is a 2009 action role-playing first-person shooter video game developed by Gearbox Software and published by 2K. It is the first game in the Borderlands series. The game was released worldwide in October 2009 for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Microsoft Windows, with a Mac OS X version being released on December 3, 2010 by Feral Interactive. The game's story focuses on a group of four "Vault Hunters", who travel to the distant planet of Pandora to search for the "Vault", which is rumored to contain advanced alien technology and other priceless riches. The hunters piece together clues to find the Vault while battling the savage wildlife of Pandora and the bandits and outlaws that populate the planet, ultimately banding together to prevent the Atlas Corporation and its privately funded paramilitary forces from reaching the Vault first.

Borderlands: The Handsome Collection	Borderlands: The Handsome Collection (later released as Borderlands Legendary Collection in 2020 for the Nintendo Switch) is a compilation of first-person shooter video games developed by Gearbox Software and published by 2K. The Handsome Collection consists of both Borderlands 2 (2012) and Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel (2014) for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, along with all of their accompanying downloadable content, enhanced local multiplayer, and the ability to transfer save data from their respective PlayStation 3 (Both Borderlands 2 & The Pre-Sequel)/Vita/PSVR and Xbox 360 versions. A port to the Nintendo Switch entitled Borderlands Legendary Collection was released in North America on May 29, 2020 along with the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions, which additionally includes the first Borderlands. For The Handsome Collection, Borderlands 2 was ported by Iron Galaxy Studios and Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel by Armature Studio. The Legendary Collection port was handled by Turn Me Up Games and Behaviour Interactive.

Bound	The game received mostly positive reviews, with critics praising its art style and originality, but the gameplay was criticized as shallow.

Bound by Flame	Bound by Flame is a fantasy-themed action role-playing game that was released in May 2014. Bound by Flame puts the player in the role of a victim of demonic possession, where it is necessary to choose between the evil powers that are offered or rejecting them in favor of developing heroic talents.

Boundless	Boundless is a massively multiplayer online sandbox game, developed by Guildford-based studio Wonderstruck Games. It was released through Early access on Steam for Microsoft Windows and OS X on November 13, 2014. It was fully released on September 11, 2018, and features online cross-play across all regions with PlayStation 4.

BPM: Bullets Per Minute	The game is a first-person shooter, in which the player assumes control of a Valkyrie, who must combat various monstrous creatures across different realms. The player can choose from ten characters, each of whom has their own unique abilities, strengths and weaknesses. Similar to rhythm games such as Crypt of the NecroDancer, the players must use abilities, reload, and shoot their weapons on beat of the game's heavy metal background music. As with many rhythm games, each successful beat match boosts a score multiplier, while their guns will misfire if the player loses the beat. The game features dungeons that are procedurally generated, and the player must defeat seven different bosses in order to finish the game.

Braid Anniversary Edition	Braid is a puzzle-platform video game developed by Number None and considered an indie title. The game was originally released in August 2008 for the Xbox 360's Xbox Live Arcade service. Ports were developed and released for Microsoft Windows in April 2009, Mac OS X in May 2009, PlayStation 3 in November 2009, and Linux in December 2010. Jonathan Blow designed the game as a personal critique of contemporary trends in video game development. He self-funded the three-year project, working with webcomic artist David Hellman to develop the artwork. An anniversary version is planned for release for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, Nintendo Switch, Mobile, Windows, Mac, and Linux with updated graphics and developer commentary.

Brawl	Basement Crawl is a maze-based action game with some strategic elements. Bloober Team's main inspirations were Spy vs. Spy and Bomberman, and gameplay revolves around setting up traps (self-detonated or activated by characters approaching it or stepping on it without noticing) to hurt other players. 
It's focused on multiplayer, but basic single player campaigns with bots to fill in for missing characters will be available too.

Brawlout	Angry Mob Games partnered with UK publisher Merge Games to release physical retail copies for the Nintendo Switch in May 2018.

Breakers Collection	Breakers (, Bureikzu) is a fighting game developed by Visco Corporation, which was released for the Neo Geo. It was followed up by Breakers Revenge (, Bureikzu Ribenji) in 1998.

Breakout: Recharged	While the concept was predated by Ramtek's Clean Sweep (1974), Breakout spawned an entire genre of clones. It was the inspiration for aspects of the Apple II computer and Taito's Space Invaders (1978). An official sequel was released in 1978, Super Breakout, which eventually became the pack-in game for the Atari 5200 console in 1982. Super Breakout introduced multiple balls in play at once, which became a common feature in the genre. In 1986 the Breakout concept found new legs with Taito's Arkanoid, which itself spawned dozens of imitators. In Japan, the genre is known as block kuzushi ("block breaker") games.

The Bridge	The game opens with the nameless main character sleeping under an apple tree. After an apple hits him in the head and wakes him up, he is guided to his house with three doors, behind which lie further doors and levels. The story is explained through the environment and post-world text as the game progresses.

Bridge Constructor	Bridge Constructor is a series of physics-based simulation-puzzle video games developed by ClockStone and published by Headup Games. While themes and elements change across the series, each game is based on planning out a bridge across a river or ravine using a number of parts, limited by the geometry of the space and the total cost of the parts. The goal for each scenario is to make sure that one or more vehicles driving across the bridge can reach the other side safely.

Bridge Constructor Portal	Bridge Constructor Portal is an engineering simulation and puzzle video game developed by ClockStone and published by Headup Games. The game is part of the Bridge Constructor series, and incorporates elements of Valve's Portal series, taking place in Aperture Laboratories. The game was released on Android, iOS, Linux, macOS and Windows in December 2017, and for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in February 2018. By August 2018, the game had sold over 500,000 copies.

Bridge Constructor Stunts	Bridge Constructor is a series of physics-based simulation-puzzle video games developed by ClockStone and published by Headup Games. While themes and elements change across the series, each game is based on planning out a bridge across a river or ravine using a number of parts, limited by the geometry of the space and the total cost of the parts. The goal for each scenario is to make sure that one or more vehicles driving across the bridge can reach the other side safely.

Bridge Constructor: The Walking Dead	Bridge Constructor is a series of physics-based simulation-puzzle video games developed by ClockStone and published by Headup Games. While themes and elements change across the series, each game is based on planning out a bridge across a river or ravine using a number of parts, limited by the geometry of the space and the total cost of the parts. The goal for each scenario is to make sure that one or more vehicles driving across the bridge can reach the other side safely.

Brigandine: The Legend of Runersia	As in the previous game, gameplay in Brigandine: The Legend of Runersia is a mix of tactical, turn-based battles and grand strategy. The player assumes control of one of six nations, each with its strengths and weaknesses. They must use troops to attack and occupy enemy castles while defending their own. Each troop consists of several monsters under the command of a human leader called a Rune Knight. There are over 100 unique Rune Knights, and each nation has a single Rune Knight designated as the "ruler". Both monsters and Rune Knights have hit points and mana pools and can become stronger by leveling up by gaining experience with the use of various skills and spells.

Broforce	Broforce is a side-scrolling run-and-gun platform video game developed by Free Lives and published by Devolver Digital. The game has the player as one of several "bros", based on popular culture action movie icons (for example, John Rambo and Ellen Ripley - "bro" treated as a gender neutral term), rescuing other "bros" through highly-destructible environments.

Broken Age: The Complete Adventure	Broken Age began under the working title Double Fine Adventure as a Kickstarter crowd-funded project promoted by Double Fine and 2 Player Productions in February 2012. Though originally a goal of only $400,000 was set to cover the costs of development and documentary filming, Broken Age became the largest crowd-funded video game project at the time, raising over $3.45 million from more than 87,000 backers within the month. It remains one of the highest-backed crowd-funded projects of any type, and its success helped to establish Kickstarter and other crowd-funding mechanisms as a viable alternative to traditional venture capital and publisher funding for niche video game titles. The game's development was chronicled by an episodic series of documentaries produced by 2 Player Productions.

Broken Sword 5: The Serpent's Curse	Broken Sword 5: The Serpent's Curse is the fifth title in the Broken Sword series of adventure video games, developed and published by Revolution Software, for Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux, PlayStation Vita (via the PlayStation Network), Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, Android and iOS. The game was released in two episodes: the first was made available on 4 December 2013; the second was released on 17 April 2014 for Microsoft Windows, OS X and Linux. The Serpent's Curse was announced on 23 August 2012, along with a Kickstarter project; it was launched for the development of the game, which had been self-funded until the launch, to be completed. The game is presented in HD and returns to the series' 2D roots, with 3D characters pre-rendered and saved in 2D frames. The majority of the funding for the game was raised through Kickstarter, more than $771,000 of the requested $400,000 were raised, and together with PayPal donations, over $823,000.

Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons	Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons is a 2013 adventure game developed by Starbreeze Studios and published by 505 Games for Xbox 360, Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, iOS, Android, Windows Phone, Nintendo Switch, and Amazon Luna. The narrative takes place in a fantasy world filled with fictitious creatures such as orcs and trolls, where two young brothers set out on a journey to find a cure for their father's illness. The game is often mentioned as an example of artistry in video games due to its heavy narrative. It received positive reviews from critics and had sold over 800,000 units by January 2015.

Bubble Bobble 4 Friends: The Baron is Back	The game has a gameplay similar to other titles in the franchise. The game characters are 3D models, with only the background in 2D. Players control two dragons, Bub or Bob, that can trap enemies in bubbles and pop them in order to eliminate them from the screen. When eliminating an enemy, a fruit is generated that can be collected as a reward to increase the player's score.

Bubsy: Paws on Fire!	The game uses the 2.5D side-scrolling platforming similar to Bubsy: The Woolies Strike Back, except that the levels auto-scroll. The goal of the game is to collect enough victory tokens to access Oinker's personal zoo, the Amazootorium. Pieces of a token can be acquired throughout a level, while more tokens can be earned by replaying it as characters Virgil and the Woolie. Each playable character has his/her own moves and abilities to get through a level: Bubsy can glide and pounce, Virgil can double-jump and duck to avoid obstacles, and the Woolie can rapid fire in her ship. Each level has three checkpoints, but, unlike previous Bubsy games, the characters have infinite lives; this means, if the player bumps into an enemy or an obstacle, they will start over from the last checkpoint that they touched, but the game will never be over. If all three tokens are collected from a level, the player will have access to a 3D forward-scrolling bonus level as Arnold, who must roll throughout a tunnel while collecting fruit and crystals, and avoiding obstacles.

Bubsy: The Woolies Strike Back	Bubsy: The Woolies Strike Back is a platform game developed by Black Forest Games and published by UFO Interactive Games under the Accolade label. It was released for PlayStation 4 and Windows on 31 October 2017. The game is the fifth installment in the Bubsy series, and the first new entry in 21 years since Bubsy 3D.

Bud Spencer & Terence Hill: Slaps and Beans	The game is a tribute to the films made in the 1970s and 1980s with the duo of actors, in which Bud Spencer and Terence Hill must thwart the diabolical plans of a group led by the evil "Capo". The settings of the game are taken from the filmography of the duo and range from the Wild West, to Miami, to the tropical island on which the movie Who Finds a Friend Finds a Treasure is set.

Bug Fables: The Everlasting Sapling	The gameplay of Bug Fables is heavily inspired by that of Paper Mario (2000) and its sequel, The Thousand-Year Door (2004). The player controls three characters: Vi the bee, who uses her boomerang for multi-hit attacks, Kabbu the beetle, who uses his horn for single-hit attacks, and Leif the moth, who uses ice magic to freeze enemies. When exploring the overworld, these characters can use their unique abilities to traverse the environment, solve puzzles, and find secrets, with more abilities unlocking as the game progresses. Enemies are visible on the overworld and can be either engaged or avoided. Combat is played in a turn-based format which makes use of small minigames similar to Paper Mario, as the player must time button presses to maximize the efficacy of their moves, or to take less damage from enemy attacks. The party also shares Teamwork Points (TP), which are used for special attacks, as well as Medal Points (MP), which are used for equipable medals that can enhance certain attributes, grant resistance to status debuffs, or unlock special moves. Upon winning a battle, the party is awarded Exploration Points (EXP); earning enough EXP will increase the party's explorer rank, where the player can choose to increase their HP by 1 per member, or TP or MP by 3. At certain ranks, the party will learn new moves or gain boosts to their stats or inventory space.

Bugsnax	Bugsnax is an adventure video game developed by independent Chicago-based developer Young Horses. In the game, players explore a mysterious island and attempt to find and capture the eponymous insectoid food creatures. The game was unveiled in June 2020 during Sony's PlayStation 5 live-streamed reveal event. British indie pop band Kero Kero Bonito performed the game's theme song, which was featured in the announcement trailer. The game was released in November 2020 for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5, as well as macOS and Windows via the Epic Games Store. Versions of the game for Steam, Nintendo Switch, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S released in April 2022, followed by a port for iOS in July 2023.

Bulb Boy	On October 6, 2017, it was released worldwide for the Xbox One. And it was released on PlayStation 4 on March 1, 2018.

Bulletstorm: Full Clip Edition	Bulletstorm is a 2011 first-person shooter game developed by People Can Fly and Epic Games and published by Electronic Arts (EA). The video game is distinguished by its system of rewarding players with "skillpoints" for performing increasingly creative kills. Bulletstorm does not have any competitive multiplayer modes, preferring instead to include cooperative online play and score attack modes. Set in the 26thcentury, the game's story follows Grayson Hunt, a space pirate and former black ops soldier who gets shot down on a war-torn planet while trying to exact revenge on General Sarrano, his former commander who tricked him and his men into committing war crimes and assassinating innocents.

Burnout Paradise Remastered	Burnout Paradise is a 2008 racing video game developed by Criterion Games and published by Electronic Arts for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Microsoft Windows. It was also released on the PlayStation Store and via Xbox Live Marketplace's Games on Demand. It was later added to the libraries of Greatest Hits and Platinum Hits titles and was made backward compatible with the Xbox One in November 2016. It is the first game in the Burnout series to be released on Microsoft Windows.

Bus Simulator 18	Bus Simulator 18 features a sizable map of fictional modern city Seaside Valley, consisting of twelve districts, which is 2.5 times bigger than Bus Simulator 16. The game allows players to drive eight licensed vehicles from four different bus manufacturers including Iveco, MAN, Mercedes-Benz, and Setra ranging from low-floor buses to articulated buses. Like its predecessor, the game also uses a procedural generation system that requires players to complete different missions to unlock new districts. Management-wise, players are able to create their own bus lines, as well as buying, selling and upgrading buses.

Bus Simulator 21	Bus Simulator 21 is a bus simulator game developed by Stillalive Studios and published by Astragon Entertainment. It is developed on the Unreal Engine 4. It is the sixth in the Bus Simulator series, and is the direct sequel to Bus Simulator 18. The game has been released on 7 September 2021 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.

Bush Hockey League	The game draws inspiration from the 1977 film Slap Shot, and makes multiple references to the film's characters and teams.

Butcher	Players control a cyborg tasked with destroying all life on Earth.  This takes the form of multiple levels of 2D platforms where the player clears all enemies.  It is a run and gun video game that uses twin-stick controls.

Cafeteria Nipponica	The player takes control of a restaurant, which they must build up to a high quality restaurant chain. Players must simultaneously deal with a number of issues at the same time, such as managing staff and researching new food items. In order to operate the restaurant, the player must have cash on hand; each April in-game, the player's staff's salary is charged, and the player must adapt with less money. You don't have to pay salaries on the first month 

Cake Bash	High Tea Frog is Gateshead-based indie studio that was founded by three former Ubisoft employees. Inspirations for Cake Bash include games such as Crash Bash, Power Stone, and Rayman Raving Rabbids. Cake Bash received generally favorable reviews from critics.

Caladrius Blaze	In Caladrius, there are normal attacks and there are elemental attacks. There are three types of element gauges, and when an elemental attack is used it depletes one of the gauges, but it is restored over time or by acquiring element cores in the stage. However, element cores are temporary, and their effectiveness decreases over time. Ether chips are generated when you damage enemies with elemental attacks and fill the ether gauge. Ether chips strengthen elemental attacks. In addition to regular bombs, there is also an "element burst" that can only be used when all element gauges are over 50%. Furthermore, there is a system called "Shame Break'' that damages the passenger's body and clothing by damaging the aircraft, and is activated if the opponent's health gauge is emptied within 30 seconds. The player character is also subject to Shame Break, which will be activated if they have 30 or more medals when defeated.

The Caligula Effect 2	The Caligula Effect is a role-playing video game developed by Aquria. It was released for the PlayStation Vita in Japan in June 2016, and by Atlus USA in North America and Europe in May 2017. A remake of the game, The Caligula Effect: Overdose, was released for the PlayStation 4 in Japan in May 2018, and worldwide by NIS America in March 2019 for the PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, and Windows. An anime adaptation of the same name premiered in April 2018.

The Caligula Effect: Overdose	The Caligula Effect is a role-playing video game developed by Aquria. It was released for the PlayStation Vita in Japan in June 2016, and by Atlus USA in North America and Europe in May 2017. A remake of the game, The Caligula Effect: Overdose, was released for the PlayStation 4 in Japan in May 2018, and worldwide by NIS America in March 2019 for the PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, and Windows. An anime adaptation of the same name premiered in April 2018.

Call of Cthulhu: The Official Video Game	Call of Cthulhu is a role-playing survival horror video game developed by Cyanide and published by Focus Home Interactive for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Nintendo Switch. The game features a semi-open world environment and incorporates themes of Lovecraftian and psychological horror into a story which includes elements of investigation and stealth. It is inspired by H. P. Lovecraft's short story "The Call of Cthulhu", while also being an adaptation of the 1981 role-playing game of the same title.

Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare	Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare is a 2014 first-person shooter video game published by Activision.  The eleventh major installment in the Call of Duty series, the game was developed by Sledgehammer Games for PlayStation 4, Windows and Xbox One, while High Moon Studios developed the versions released on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, and Raven Software developed the game's multiplayer and the Exo-Zombies mode.

Call of Duty: Black Ops III	Call of Duty: Black Ops III is a 2015 first-person shooter game developed by Treyarch and published by Activision. It is the twelfth entry in the Call of Duty series and the sequel to the 2012 video game Call of Duty: Black Ops II. It was released on PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on November 6, 2015. A feature-limited version developed by Beenox and Mercenary Technology that only supports multiplayer modes was released on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 and was also the final Call of Duty title released on those platforms.

Call of Duty: Black Ops IIII	Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 (stylized as Call of Duty: Black Ops IIII) is a 2018 multiplayer first-person shooter developed by Treyarch and published by Activision. It was released worldwide for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on October 12, 2018. It is a prequel to the 2015 game Call of Duty: Black Ops III, the fifth entry in the Black Ops sub-series, and the 15th installment in the Call of Duty series overall.

Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War	Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War is a 2020 first-person shooter game developed by Treyarch and Raven Software and published by Activision. It is the sixth installment in the Black Ops sub-series and the seventeenth installment in the overall Call of Duty series, serving as a direct narrative continuation of 2010's Call of Duty: Black Ops. The game was released on November 13, 2020, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

Call of Duty: Ghosts	Call of Duty: Ghosts is a 2013 first-person shooter video game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. It is the tenth major installment in the Call of Duty series and the sixth developed by Infinity Ward. It was released for PlayStation 3, Wii U, Windows, and Xbox 360, on November 5, 2013. The game was released with the launch of the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.

Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare	Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare is a 2016 first-person shooter video game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. It is the thirteenth installment in the Call of Duty series and was released worldwide for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on November 4, 2016.

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare	Call of Duty: Modern Warfare is a 2019 first-person shooter video game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. Serving as the sixteenth overall installment in the Call of Duty series, as well as a reboot of the Modern Warfare sub-series, it was released on October 25, 2019, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One.

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II	Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II is a 2022 first-person shooter video game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. It is a sequel to the 2019 reboot, and serves as the nineteenth installment in the overall Call of Duty series. It was released on October 28, 2022, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare III	Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III is a 2023 first-person shooter video game developed by Sledgehammer Games and published by Activision. It is a sequel to 2022's Modern Warfare II, serving as the third entry in the rebooted Modern Warfare sub-series and the twentieth installment in the overall Call of Duty series. The game was released on November 10, 2023, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered	Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered is a 2016 first-person shooter game developed by Raven Software and published by Activision. It is a remastered version of the 2007 game Call of Duty4: Modern Warfare, and was initially released as part of the special edition bundles of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare in November 2016 for the PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. A standalone version was released for these platforms in mid-2017. The game's story follows the United States Marine Corps (USMC) and the Special Air Service (SAS), who take on missions to fight against a separatist group in the Middle East and an ultranationalist group in Russia.

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 Campaign Remastered	Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 is a 2009 first-person shooter game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. It is the sixth installment in the Call of Duty series and the direct sequel to Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. It was released worldwide on November 10, 2009, for Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360. A separate version for the Nintendo DS, titled Modern Warfare: Mobilized, was also released on the same day. A version for OS X was developed by Aspyr and released in May 2014, and the Xbox 360 version was made backward compatible for the Xbox One in 2018.

Call of Duty: Vanguard	Call of Duty: Vanguard is a 2021 first-person shooter game developed by Sledgehammer Games and published by Activision. It was released on November 5 for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. It serves as the 18th installment in the overall Call of Duty series. Vanguard establishes a storyline featuring the birth of the special forces to face an emerging threat at the end of the war during various theatres of World War II.

Call of Duty: Warzone	Call of Duty: Warzone is a free-to-play battle royale video game developed by Raven Software and Infinity Ward and published by Activision. The game was released on March 10, 2020, for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One as a part of 2019's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare and was subsequently connected to 2020's Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War and 2021's Call of Duty: Vanguard, but did not require purchase of any of the aforementioned titles. Warzone allowed online multiplayer combat among 150 players and featured both cross-platform play and cross-platform progression between the three aforementioned titles.

Call of Duty: WWII	Call of Duty: WWII is a 2017 first-person shooter game developed by Sledgehammer Games and published by Activision. It was released worldwide on November 3, 2017 for PlayStation 4, Windows and Xbox One. It is the fourteenth main installment in the Call of Duty series and the first title in the series to be set primarily during World War II since Call of Duty: World at War in 2008.

Call of the Sea	Call of the Sea is an adventure video game played from a first-person perspective. The game is set in the 1930s, and players assume control of Norah (Cissy Jones), who must explore an island set in the Southern Pacific to find her husband, Harry (Yuri Lowenthal), who has gone missing after embarking on an expedition. The game does not feature a combat system, and players progress in the game by solving various puzzles.

Capcom Arcade Stadium	Capcom Arcade Stadium is an arcade video game compilation by Capcom. It includes 32 arcade games originally published by Capcom between 1984 and 2001. The compilation was initially released on Nintendo Switch in February 2021, then on PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in May 2021, and Amazon Luna in May 2022.

Capcom Beat 'Em Up Bundle	Capcom Beat 'Em Up Bundle (released in Japan as Capcom Belt Action Collection) is a compilation of Capcom arcade beat 'em ups developed and published by Capcom. The collection was released digitally for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4,  and Xbox One in September 2018, with the game being released for Windows later in October 2018. A physical release occurred in Japan on December 6 for PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch.

Capcom Fighting Collection	Capcom Fighting Collection is a compilation of arcade versions of ten fighting games originally developed and published by Capcom. Most prominently, all five arcade entries in the Darkstalkers franchise are included, marking the first time the full series was made available outside Japan. The collection also includes Red Earth for its first ever release outside arcades. The compilation features online play with rollback netcode, training and spectator modes, save states, concept art, design documents, and a music player. Similar to Darkstalkers Resurrection, the compilation does not have the extra/boss playable characters featured from the home console versions, unlike the Japanese-only release Vampire: Darkstalkers Collection.

Capsule Force	Iron Galaxy Studios, LLC is an American video game developer studio founded on August 14, 2008, and based in Chicago, Illinois, with a second studio in Orlando, Florida that was opened in 2012, a third studio in Nashville, Tennessee in 2022, and a fourth in Austin, Texas. Iron Galaxy often collaborates with publishers and developers to provide "technical consulting", port games to different platforms, co-development, lead development, and support.

Captain Tsubasa: Rise of New Champions	Captain Tsubasa: Rise of New Champions includes offline and online multiplayer modes, and a single-player story mode split into two sub-modes: Episode Tsubasa, allowing players to experience the original storyline, and Episode New Hero, allowing players to create their character and level up in a fashion similar to the FIFA series' Player Career mode or Pro Evolution Soccer's Become A Legend mode. In New Hero, players can choose to represent Nankatsu Middle School, Furano Middle School, Toho Academy, Musashi Middle School, Otomo Middle School or Hanawa Middle School before playing in the Junior Youth World Challenge, an international U-16 tournament.

Carmageddon: Max Damage	Carmageddon: Reincarnation is a vehicular combat game, the fourth in the Carmageddon series. The game was developed by Stainless Games.

Car Mechanic Simulator 2018	Car Mechanic Simulator 2018 is a simulation video game developed by Polish studio Red Dot Games depicting the work of an automotive mechanic. It was released on July 28, 2017, for Microsoft Windows; in 2019 on February 15 for Nintendo Switch and June 25 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. A simplified version for mobile platforms was released in June 2018. The game is the third in the Car Mechanic Simulator series, following Car Mechanic Simulator 2014 and Car Mechanic Simulator 2015, the game is the predecessor of Car Mechanic Simulator 2021, which was released on August 11, 2021.

Carrion	Carrion was released for Microsoft Windows, macOS, Linux, Nintendo Switch, and Xbox One on July 23, 2020. A PlayStation 4 version of the game was released on October 22, 2021, and a version for Amazon Luna was made available on November 4, 2021. A PlayStation 5 port was released on April 27, 2023.

Cars 3: Driven to Win	Cars 3: Driven to Win is a 2017 racing game developed by Avalanche Software and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. The game is based on the 2017 film of the same name. It is the first Disney game without the involvement of Disney Interactive Studios since its closure on May 10, 2016, and the first game developed by Avalanche Software since acquired and re-established by Warner Bros. from Disney. The game was released for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, and Wii U, on June 13, 2017, in North America, in Europe and Australia on July 14, 2017, and in Japan on July 20, 2017.

Carto	Carto is a top-down puzzle adventure game. The player assumes the role of a young girl named Carto, who is separated from her grandmother, a cartographer by profession, during a violent storm. Washed ashore on an island in the aftermath of the storm, Carto must find a way out of her predicament and reunite with her grandmother. Each level of the game involves the player discovering and assembling different pieces of her map, which determines the geography of the island and progress the game's narrative. By moving the pieces on the map, players also assist non-player characters (NPC's) with various tasks, such as locating their homes.

Cartoon Network: Battle Crashers	Cartoon Network: Battle Crashers is a side-scrolling beat 'em up video game based on multiple Cartoon Network series developed by French studio Magic Pockets and published by GameMill Entertainment in the North American release and Maximum Games in the European release. It was released for Nintendo 3DS, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on 8 November 2016. A Nintendo DS version was also going to be released but was cancelled, as GameMill Entertainment's page for the game shows a cover for a Nintendo DS version. The game features characters from various Cartoon Network shows, including Adventure Time, The Amazing World of Gumball, Clarence, Regular Show, Steven Universe, and Uncle Grandpa.

Casey Powell Lacrosse 16	Community Share has allowed for over 50 collegiate lacrosse teams and more than 9 pro lacrosse teams and developer-created teams.

Castaway Paradise	Castaway Paradise is a social simulation game created by Dutch indie studio Stolen Couch Games, it launched on Facebook in 2014, iOS on July 2, 2015, Android on January 9, 2015 and on Steam on May 19, 2015. It was released on Xbox One and PlayStation 4 on July 31, 2018. On February 1, 2021, rokaplay GmbH announced that it will release for Nintendo Switch on April 29, 2021.

Castle Crashers Remastered	On June 15, 2015, The Behemoth announced Castle Crashers Remastered for Xbox One, while the Steam version received it in the form of a free update. The remastered version features higher quality textures,  uncapped frame-rate, performance improvements, and an additional mini-game. This version later released for the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 on September 17, 2019.

CastleStorm: Definitive Edition	CastleStorm is a side-scrolling physics-based real-time strategy game with tower defense elements. The player plays a number of characters obtained from completing separate game "campaigns", starting with the default character, Sir Gareth who is introduced in the first campaign, Kingdom Quest. There are four separate campaigns featured in the game, all set in slightly different points of time, with the last being, "The Warrior Queen".

CastleStorm II	CastleStorm is a side-scrolling physics-based real-time strategy game with tower defense elements. The player plays a number of characters obtained from completing separate game "campaigns", starting with the default character, Sir Gareth who is introduced in the first campaign, Kingdom Quest. There are four separate campaigns featured in the game, all set in slightly different points of time, with the last being, "The Warrior Queen".

Castlevania Anniversary Collection	Castlevania is a video game series created and published by Konami. The series debuted in Japan on September 26, 1986 with Akumaj Dracula (, Akumaj Dorakyura, lit. "Demon Castle Dracula"), which was later released as Castlevania in the United States (May 1, 1987) and PAL (December 19, 1988). Titles in the series have been released on numerous video game consoles, handheld game consoles, and personal computer platforms, and several have been re-released on multiple platforms and included as part of compilation packages.

Castlevania Requiem	Castlevania is a video game series created and published by Konami. The series debuted in Japan on September 26, 1986 with Akumaj Dracula (, Akumaj Dorakyura, lit. "Demon Castle Dracula"), which was later released as Castlevania in the United States (May 1, 1987) and PAL (December 19, 1988). Titles in the series have been released on numerous video game consoles, handheld game consoles, and personal computer platforms, and several have been re-released on multiple platforms and included as part of compilation packages.

Catherine: Full Body	Catherine is a puzzle video game developed by Atlus. The game was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in Japan and North America in 2011, in PAL regions by Deep Silver in 2012, and for Windows by Sega in 2019. A re-release with additional content, titled Catherine: Full Body, was released in 2019 for the PlayStation 4 worldwide and for the PlayStation Vita only in Japan, and a Nintendo Switch version released worldwide in 2020.

Catlateral Damage	The original version of Catlateral Damage was created for the August 2013 7DFPS game jam. Development for a full release began in September 2013.

Cat Quest	Cat Quest is an action role-playing video game developed by Singapore based team The Gentlebros and published by PQube. The game was released in 2017 and received generally positive reviews from professional critics.

Cat Quest II	Cat Quest II is an action role-playing game. Players take control of a cat and a dogtwo kings removed from their thronesas they work together to reclaim their kingdoms from tyranny.  In single-player, the player takes control of one character, while an AI takes control of the other; both cat and dog can be switched between manually. In cooperative multiplayer, a second player can take control of either the cat or the dog. Both the cat and dog can attack, cast spells, and dodge. Weapons range from melee armaments that allow for attacking enemies at close range, to magic weapons that permit the wielder to fire off ranged attacks at the cost of reducing their health. The game features two distinct areas which have towns and enemies, as well as dungeons that players can explore in order to claim new spells and other rewards. Aside from the main quest centered around the story, players can also complete side quests.

Cel Damage HD	Cel Damage is a vehicular combat video game developed by Pseudo Interactive and published by Electronic Arts. The game was first released for Xbox on 14 November 2001, and for GameCube on 7 January 2002, in North America respectively. In Europe, the game launched for both consoles on 3 May 2002. A Europe-exclusive PlayStation 2 port, titled Cel Damage Overdrive, was released as a budget title by System 3 under their Play It label on 12 December 2002. A high-definition remaster, developed and published by Finish Line Games, titled Cel Damage HD, was released for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita on 22 April 2014 in North America and 14 May 2014 in the PAL region. An Xbox One port followed worldwide, via the Xbox Games Store, on 11 March 2016. A Nintendo Switch port was released via the Nintendo eShop on 28 March 2019.

Celeste	Celeste is a 2018 platform game developed and published by indie studio Maddy Makes Games. The player controls Madeline, a young woman with anxiety and depression who aims to climb Celeste Mountain. During her climb, she encounters several characters, including a personification of her self-doubt known as Badeline, who attempts to stop her from climbing the mountain.

Centipede: Recharged	Centipede was ported to Atari's own Atari 2600, Atari 5200, Atari 7800, and Atari 8-bit family. Under the Atarisoft label, the game was sold for the Apple II, Commodore 64, ColecoVision, VIC-20, IBM PC (as a self-booting disk), Intellivision, and TI-99/4A. Superior Software published the port for the BBC Micro. Versions for the Game Boy and Game Boy Color were also produced, as well as a version for the short-lived Game.com developed by Handheld Games and published by Tiger Electronics.

Chained Echoes	Chained Echoes is a role-playing video game featuring pixel art visuals inspired by the 16-bit era and turn-based combat. Unlike most older role-playing games that feature random encounters, enemies are visible on the map and trigger encounters on the same screen, similar to Chrono Trigger. Battles are turn-based, and each character in the player's party has a standard attack, several special abilities, items, and a defensive stance.  In combat, party members use attacks and abilities that raise the "overdrive" meter, which reaches an optimal green zone where abilities are more effective. However, the overdrive meter can overheat, and the party must discharge some of the excess by using specific abilities, such as defenses and "Ultra Moves".

Chambara	It received mixed reviews from critics, who praised the art style and gameplay, but criticized its lack of features. The game was nominated for an IGF Award and won a BAFTA Ones to Watch Award in 2015. It was also an official selection at Indiecade.

Chaos;Child	The player takes the role of Takuru Miyashiro, the president of his school's newspaper club, who investigates the "Return of the New Generation Madness" serial murder case. He experiences delusions, and at multiple points throughout the story, the player gets the option to choose if Takuru should experience a positive or negative delusion, or neither: these choices affect the plot's direction, causing it to branch off from the main narrative into different routes.

Chaos Code: New Sign of Catastrophe	The first game known as Chaos Code: Sign of Catastrophe was released for Sega's RingWide arcade system board on August 4, 2011. A port for the PlayStation 3 was first released on December 19, 2012, on Hong Kong's PlayStation Network, followed by subsequent home releases in both Japan and North America in 2013 and the PAL region in 2014. A remastered version, Chaos Code: New Sign of Catastrophe, was released on arcades on June 6, 2013, and on PlayStation 4 and Windows on March 15, 2017. It features a new online mode and new characters. The game was ported to the Nintendo Switch and released on March 26, 2020. An arcade version of New Sign of Catastrophe known as Chaos Code: Exact Xeno Attack was ported by eXA-Arcadia in 2020.

Chaos on Deponia	The core gameplay has remained unchanged from the previous installment. The player controls Rufus across various highly detailed backgrounds, collecting and combining smaller objects and interacting with machines in order to solve puzzles and advance the plot further.

Chariot	Chariot differs from most traditional platform games as the objective is to lug around an object, the Chariot, to the end of each level. To do so, the players have to use physics-based mechanics such as pushing and pulling, adding a layer of puzzle to the game.

Chasm	Inspired by Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, Chasm tells the story of an aspiring knight eager to prove their worth, on a quest to a mining town whose resources are essential. Although the story is the same for all players, the exact layout of the world map is unique for each adventure, through the game's use of procedural generation combined with handmade room sequences. Combat (also similar to Castlevania) gives the player an option of a melee weapon and a sub-weapon to do most of your damage. As the players venture down into the mine, they can level up, collect new weapons from swords to whips, and use artifacts which make the environment explorable in different ways for new areas. The boss fights in the game rely on memorizing attack patterns. Besides that, there are rooms with moving or disappearing platforms, environmental hazards and traps, making a balance between combat and platforming. On the journey, there are townspeople trapped in cages. Releasing them sends them back up to the town, with a shop or service offered in the process, and unlocks a new sidequest expanding on the service they offer. Each map is segmented into themed sections like catacombs and gardens.

Chernobylite	Chernobylite is a 2021 first-person shooter survival horror video game developed by Polish game developer The Farm 51 and published by All in! Games. The game is set in the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone, where the player's objective is to explore, as Ukrainian physicist Igor Khymynuk, and find his fiance in the radioactive wasteland. It was released for Windows in July 2021, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in September 2021, and PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in April 2022. It received positive to mixed reviews from critics.

Chess Ultra	Chess Ultra is a chess video game developed and published by Ripstone for the PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in June 2017. A Switch port was released a few months later. It is the second chess game by Ripstone after Pure Chess (2012). Chess Ultra is the first in-house developed game by Ripstone.

Chicory: A Colorful Tale	Chicory: A Colorful Tale, or Chicory, is an adventure role-playing video game where characters are small anthropomorphic animals. The player takes the role of an anthropomorphic dog named after the player's favorite food, or the default name "Pizza" if the player does not choose a favorite food. The world they explore is black and white, but can be painted using The Brush, a large paintbrush. The paintbrush can also be used to solve environmental puzzles. Over the course of the game the player gains new abilities such as the ability to jump and an ability to swim through the paint with later unlocks allowing the player to swim up walls and up waterfalls.

Child of Light	The game's story takes place in the fictional land of Lemuria. Aurora, a child who wakes up in Lemuria after dying from a mysterious illness, must bring back the sun, the moon, and the stars that are all being held captive by the Queen of the Night in order to return home.

Children of Morta	Players take on the role of members of the Bergson family, with additional family members being unlocked as a player progresses through the game, to a total of seven playable characters. Each family member has its own playstyle and gameplay mechanics and levels up as it is played, granting improvements to themselves and other family members. The player must traverse a number of procedurally generated dungeons within the caverns of Mount Morta to clear them of various enemies and bosses.

Chime Sharp	Chime is a block-dropping game. Players control a single shape at a time, and can move, rotate, and then place it onto a grid. A beatline moves across the grid in time with the music, setting off events when it hits placed shapes. Quads are created by placing shapes in solid blocks of 3x3 or more. When a quad is completed and the beat line hits, different musical samples are triggered dependent on its shape. The size of the quad denotes the score, and multipliers can be achieved by having several quads on the screen at once. Once the beatline hits a completed quad, it is stamped down into the grid, earning the player coverage. (n.b.: when the stage's time runs out, all active quadsthose that have not finished filling upare immediately scored and added to the player's coverage, in order to allow awards of coverage bonus time and continued play.)

Chivalry: Medieval Warfare	Chivalry: Medieval Warfare is a multiplayer-focused hack and slash developed by Torn Banner Studios as their first commercial title. The game is set in a fictional setting. On September 20, 2012, a trailer was released which set the release date to October 16, 2012. The developers had confirmed that the game would be PC exclusive initially, but in October 2014, they confirmed that the game would be coming to PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in December 2014. A standalone expansion pack called Chivalry: Deadliest Warrior was announced on August 23, 2013, as a tie-in for the television series Deadliest Warrior. It was released on November 14, 2013.

Chivalry 2	Chivalry 2 is an action game played from either first-person or third-person perspective, either on foot or on horseback for the first time in the series.

Chocobo's Mystery Dungeon Every Buddy!	The game was well received by critics, who praised the dialogue, graphics and nostalgia for Final Fantasy, but noted the game's shallow and repetitive gameplay. An enhanced port of the game was released for the Nintendo DS in Japan in 2008. A remaster, Chocobo's Mystery Dungeon Every Buddy!, was released for the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 in 2019.

ChromaGun	ChromaGun is a puzzle game revolving around using colors. The player uses the ChromaGun, a paint-shooting weapon, to colorize walls and floating spherical robots, called Worker Droids. These Worker Droids are attracted to walls of the same color and will move towards them.

Chroma Squad	The game was released on April 30, 2015 for Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X and Linux. Digital distribution is available through Steam and GOG.com. Chroma Squad was released in early 2017 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, iOS and Android  mobile devices, being published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. A PlayStation Vita version was planned, however was ultimately cancelled. It was announced to be released on May 19, 2017 on PSN for PlayStation 4. It was also released for Nintendo Switch on Aug 1, 2019.

Chronicles of Teddy: Harmony of Exidus	A young girl enters a portal leading from her house into a fantasy world to save her friend and the land from evil. After this set-up, exposition is minimal and the narrative must largely be inferred with environmental clues, as the NPCs speak in musical notes, which can eventually be translated by finding musical runes.

Chronos: Before the Ashes	Chronos is a 2016 action role-playing game developed and published by Gunfire Games for the Oculus Rift virtual reality (VR) headset. The game received generally positive reviews upon release. An overhauled version of the game, titled Chronos: Before the Ashes was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, Xbox One and Stadia on December 1, 2020.

The Church in the Darkness	The Church in the Darkness is an "action-infiltration" game set inside a religious cult in the 1970s.
The game revolves around an ex-law enforcement officer named Vic who attempts to get inside an isolated religious colony called "Freedom Town" to check in on his sister's son, Alex. The leaders, Isaac and Rebecca Walker of the "Collective Justice Mission", preach socialism and sustainable agricultural living in a Christian society. They are voiced by the couple, John Patrick Lowrie and Ellen McLain. The story unfolds through Isaac and Rebecca's regular updates on the camp's public address system.

Ciel Nosurge DX	The game's first version was released on April 26, 2012. The original cart contained just the first episode of the game, with additional episodes gradually being released as downloadable content (DLC) via the PlayStation Network. Ciel nosurge Re:Incarnation, a re-release containing all of the original game's patches and DLC, including episodes one through four and a voucher to download episode five, was released on February 21, 2013. A total of twelve episodes were released in total, which are divided in three arcs: the Trials Arc, the Downfall Arc and the Empress Arc. An offline-only version of the game titled Ciel noSurge Offline was released on October 2, 2014. In September 2015, Koei Tecmo announced that all versions of the game would remain exclusive available to Japan, with the company having no intentions on translating or releasing it in any other regions or languages.

Cinders	As it is a visual novel, the player reads through the story and makes choices at crucial points to change the outcome, leading to one out of four different endings. The player has the ability to watch the endings including the variations again. There are eight trophies the player can collect during the game.

Circuit Superstars	Circuit Superstars is a top-down racing game where one to twelve drivers compete in single races or tournaments. Players may choose to race against AI drivers offline or against human players online. The game supports split screen gameplay for one to four players in both online and offline modes.

Cities: Skylines	Cities: Skylines is a 2015 city-building game developed by Colossal Order and published by Paradox Interactive. The game is a single-player open-ended city-building simulation. Players engage in urban planning by controlling zoning, road placement, taxation, public services, and public transportation of an area. They also work to manage various elements of the city, including its budget, health, employment, traffic, and pollution levels. It is also possible to maintain a city in a sandbox mode, which provides more creative freedom for the player.

Citizens of Earth	Citizens of Earth has been described as "a giant spoof on EarthBound" in which "you must collect your constituents like Pokmon". In it, you take the role of the newly elected Vice President of Earth, who begins his first day in office facing protestors, a missing President, and a suspicious coffee shop. As the game progresses, characters are added to the party, each with a unique title and personality, like Hippie Guy and Programmer.

City Shrouded in Shadow	Kyoei Toshi (, lit. City of Giant Shadows), known in English as City Shrouded in Shadow, is a 2017 survival video game developed by Granzella and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. The objective of the game is to escape a city ravaged by battles between monsters, robots, and heroes from the Japanese kaiju and tokusatsu franchises Godzilla, Ultraman, Gamera, Patlabor, and Neon Genesis Evangelion.

Civilization VI	Sid Meier's Civilization VI is a turn-based strategy 4X video game developed by Firaxis Games and published by 2K. The mobile and Nintendo Switch port was published by Aspyr Media. The latest entry into the Civilization series, it was released on Windows and macOS in October 2016, with later ports for Linux in February 2017, iOS in December 2017, Nintendo Switch in November 2018, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in November 2019, and Android in 2020.

Cladun Returns: This is Sengoku!	Cladun: This is an RPG features cooperative and competitive gameplay with up to three other players. Dungeons are randomly generated and the game features customization of not only the main character but also the final boss. Developer Souhei Niikawa compares the game's retro art style to What Did I Do to Deserve This, My Lord?, another Nippon Ichi title. Two sequels for this game were released, ClaDun x2, which was released in 2011 for the PlayStation Portable, and was made available for PC via Steam on August 14, 2012, and ClaDun Returns: This Is Sengoku!, which was released for the PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4 and Steam in 2016-2017.

Clannad	Clannad is a Japanese visual novel developed by Key and released on April 28, 2004, for Windows. While both of Key's first two previous works, Kanon and Air, had been released first as adult games and then censored for the younger market, Clannad was specifically made for all ages. It was later ported to the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch consoles. An English version for Windows was released on Steam by Sekai Project in 2015.

Clockwork Aquario	Clockwork Aquario was intended to be the last arcade game by Westone, developed in 1992 for Sega System 18 and push the hardware to its limits; however, it was canceled due to the increasing popularity of 3D games and fighting games in arcades as well as negative feedback during location tests in 1993. In 2017, Strictly Limited Games acquired the rights from Sega, with ININ Games collaborating on a restoration work alongside former Westone staff members as certain elements from the project's source code were lost. Clockwork Aquario holds the Guinness world record for the longest time between the start of a video game project and its release, at 28 years and 81 days.

Clone Drone in the Danger Zone	In the game, the player's mind has been transferred into a robot gladiator. Playing as a robot, the player must fight against "floors" of enemies by using weapons or the environment around them. The playable area is built like a Colosseum, with similar robot NPCs in the stands of the arena. After each level, the player can upgrade themselves or gain new abilities such as clones, new weapons, or lower cooldowns. The game has 4 modes: story mode, endless mode, challenges, and Twitch mode.

Close to the Sun	In the game, the player guides a journalist named Rose Archer, who seeks to save her sister, Ada. Set in an alternate reality in 1897, the two prominent inventors Nikola Tesla and Thomas Edison fight for technological predominance on the globe. Close to the Sun almost exclusively takes place on the colossal sea cruiser Helios; operated by Tesla, it serves as a hub for the world's most successful scientists and inventors.

Cloudpunk	The player takes control of Rania, a new driver for the "semi-legal" delivery company Cloudpunk. The player has to maneuver a HOVA (flying car), through a futuristic city, collecting and delivering packages as well as passengers. It is also possible to park the car on certain parking spaces and explore parts of the city on foot. During some missions, the player can make decisions that influence the outcome. Furthermore, the player can collect optional story items that are scattered throughout the city to unlock additional side quests. It is possible to upgrade the HOVA to increase the speed and durability, as well as buy items to decorate Rania's apartment.

Clustertruck	Clustertruck is a 2016 platformer game developed by independent Swedish studio Landfall Games and published by tinyBuild. It was released for Microsoft Windows, macOS, Linux, and PlayStation 4 in September 2016, Xbox One in October 2016, and Nintendo Switch in March 2018.

Cobra Kai: The Karate Kid Saga Continues	Hawk and Demetri are in the principal's office for the complete chaos that happened all over the valley, while arguing over who's telling the truth over how it all started. The principal tells them that they're both gonna get suspended unless they can make their story make sense, and to tell it all the way from the beginning.

Code Vein	Code Vein is an action role-playing game developed by Bandai Namco Studios and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. It was released worldwide on September 27, 2019 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, and sold over three million copies but received mixed reviews from critics.

Coffee Talk	Coffee Talk is a visual novel developed by Indonesian indie studio Toge Productions, and released on 29 January 2020 for Microsoft Windows, macOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. The game was released in Japan for Nintendo Switch a day later on 30 January 2020. The game follows a barista working in a coffee shop in a fantasy version of Seattle as they listen to the concerns of the coffee shop's various patrons and prepare drinks. The game features an aesthetic inspired by 90s anime, pixel art, and the lofi chillhop genre of music.

The Coma: Recut	After falling asleep in class, a student named Youngho awakens at night to find his school transformed into a terrifying landscape filled with monsters.

Commandos 2 - HD Remaster	While the PC version of the game was well received, the console versions received less favourable reviews. In 2005, the game was bundled together with Commandos 3: Destination Berlin as part of the Commandos Battle Pack by Feral Interactive.

Conan Exiles	Conan Exiles is a survival video game developed and published by Funcom for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. The game is set in the world of Conan the Barbarian, with the custom playable character being rescued by Conan, beginning their journey. Early access versions of the game were released in early 2017, leaving early access on 8 May 2018. An enhanced version of the game for Xbox Series X and Series S released on 8 June 2021.

Conarium	Conarium follows four scientists in their endeavor to challenge what we normally consider to be the absolute limits of nature. The scientist sought to transcend human consciousness with the use of a so-called Conarium device.

Conception Plus: Maidens of the Twelve Stars	A second game in the series, Conception II: Children of the Seven Stars, was released for the PlayStation Vita and Nintendo 3DS across 2013 and 2014 in Japanese and English, and later released on Steam in 2016.

Concrete Genie	The player controls Ash and uses the DualShock 4's motion controls to create landscapes in the town of Denska. These landscapes turn into living portraits. How the player paints creatures and what color they paint them will affect the personalities of each creature. For example, red paint will grant a creature fire-breathing abilities. In addition to free-style drawing, there is a set of core puzzles in the game that the player has to solve through their artwork.

Conglomerate 451: Overloaded	The player controls a team of cloned soldiers sent to free a cyberpunk city from corrupt corporations.  It is a first-person party-based dungeon crawler with turn-based combat.  The world is procedurally generated and uses movement on a 2D grid.  New clones can be created, and, like in traditional role-playing video games, these characters can be customized and gain new skills over time.  Characters can suffer permanent injuries and become unplayable when killed.  After completing missions, the player can research new technologies to give their clones special abilities.  Each mission takes one week, and the game ends after 75 weeks.  An alternative game mode allows players to continue running missions indefinitely without interference by the story.

Construction Simulator 2: Console Edition	Gameplay begins with tutorials where the player learn to drive the basic heavy machinery of the game, including trucks and excavators. As the game goes on, the player can select different contracts, to build several types of buildings, and manage his contractor company. The player can purchase new vehicles and equipment (from different brands including Caterpillar, Liebherr, John Deere and many more), and even hire new workers. The game features open world, and the player unlock the locations as he discovers them. Fast-travel is available in certain moments of the game and between missions.

Construction Simulator 3: Console Edition	Gameplay begins with tutorials where the player learn to drive the basic heavy machinery of the game, including trucks and excavators. As the game goes on, the player can select different contracts, to build several types of buildings, and manage his contractor company. The player can purchase new vehicles and equipment (from different brands including Caterpillar, Liebherr, John Deere and many more), and even hire new workers. The game features open world, and the player unlock the locations as he discovers them. Fast-travel is available in certain moments of the game and between missions.

Constructor HD	Constructor is a 1997 video game released originally for MS-DOS computers and later ported to the PlayStation, macOS and Microsoft Windows-native DirectX 3. It was developed by System 3 and published by Acclaim Entertainment.

Constructor Plus	Constructor is a 1997 video game released originally for MS-DOS computers and later ported to the PlayStation, macOS and Microsoft Windows-native DirectX 3. It was developed by System 3 and published by Acclaim Entertainment.

Contra Anniversary Collection	The arcade game was a commercial success worldwide, becoming one of the top four highest-grossing dedicated arcade games of 1987 in the United States. The NES version was also a critical and commercial success, with Electronic Gaming Monthly awarding it for being the Best Action Game of 1988. Several Contra sequels were produced following the original game.

Contra: Rogue Corps	Rogue Corps is set in the fictional Damned City two years after Contra III: The Alien Wars and Contra 4, featuring four playable characters and a wide degree of weapon customization. The game received generally mixed reviews upon release. It was criticized for its gameplay, graphics, and story, although praise fell toward its upgrade and customization system.

Contrast	The game is set in a noir atmosphere aesthetically inspired by Belle Epoque and Art Nouveau. The player must solve puzzles that require movement between the physical world, which is represented as 3D, and shadows, which are represented as 2D. The player may sometimes manipulate different light sources in the 3D world (spotlights, film projectors, etc.) to create the shadow paths that reach into new areas; "collectibles", available through game-play, offer insight into the game's characters and the world in which they live. The goal of the game is exploration and discovery through problem solving. 

Control	Control is a 2019 action-adventure game developed by Remedy Entertainment and published by 505 Games. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in August 2019, and for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in February 2021. Cloud-based versions for the Nintendo Switch and Amazon Luna were released in October 2020, followed by a version for Stadia in July 2021. Two paid expansions have been released.

Convoy: A Tactical Roguelike	The game was part-funded through a Kickstarter campaign, raising 22,408 towards its development costs in November 2014.

Cook, Serve, Delicious! 2	Another sequel, Cook, Serve, Delicious! 3, was released in October 2020.

Cook, Serve, Delicious! 3	Cook, Serve, Delicious! 3 narratively follows the previous game in a dystopian America in 2042 that has been ravaged by war, which had caused the destruction of the former restaurant. Two search and recovery androids, Cleaver and Whisk (voiced by Twitch streamers Vana (Havana Mahoney) and Negaoryx (Emme Montgomery), respectively) find the chef (the player-character) still alive, and offer them their truck to use as a food truck to continue the restaurant. They become part of a national food truck championship, the Iron Speedway, as the game progresses. At the Iron Speedway (with announcers voiced by Northernlion and Kate Letourneau), the chef is challenged to complete several perfect runs while other competing food trucks attempt to sabotage their efforts.

Corpse Party: Blood Covered Repeated Fear	An enhanced port of the game for the PlayStation Portable was released in 2010 as Corpse Party: Blood Covered ...Repeated Fear in Japan. This remaster was later ported to iOS, Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and was also re-released for Microsoft Windows. Since its release, the game has received generally positive reviews across all platforms, gaining praise for its inventive sound design, though it received criticism for its drawn out wrong endings. A sequel, Corpse Party: Book of Shadows, was released for the PlayStation Portable in 2011.

Cosmic Star Heroine	Cosmic Star Heroine is a role-playing game where the player recruits up to 11 playable characters, and chooses a party of four to go into combat with enemies.  There are no random battles; combat takes place on the field like in Chrono Trigger, with visible enemies and bosses.  These encounters do not respawn, but if a player desires to "grind" for more levels and money, they can start additional battles at any time with as a VR battle, somewhat similar to the ability in Cthulhu Saves the World to force an encounter.  Rather than using traditional MP, a unique charge-based system is used.  In battle, each character sets up to 7 abilities and a rest/defend type ability; in general, once an ability is used, it cannot be used again until the defend ability is used, which recharges all spent abilities.  Additionally, each character has a specific pattern for gaining "Hyper" turns wherein their abilities are drastically more effective.  This makes it so that "spamming" the most powerful ability is less effective due to needing to spend a turn resting to recharge it; the gameplay is based around setting up buffs and debuffs, then using powerful abilities on Hyper turns.  Status effects also operate on a "reliable" basis, rather than having a percentage chance of success, but enemies also increase status ailment resistance after being inflicted with an ailment.  Characters, both PCs and enemies, have a Style gauge that starts at 100% and increases with most actions.  Style acts as a multiplier increasing damage done.  Style can be lost via near-death and death, as well as certain powerful "Burst" moves that reset Style to 100%.  This acts similar to mechanics in earlier games made by Zeboyd that increase the tension and damage dealt the longer a fight persists.  The game has four difficulty settings which can freely be changed between in-game; enemies are tougher and deal more damage on the higher difficult settings.

Costume Quest 2	Costume Quest 2 is a role-playing video game in which the player assumes the role of one of two twin siblings: Wren and Reynold. The game follows the player character, their sibling, and certain ally party members found along their travels as they journey through time in an effort to stop a dentist named Dr. Orel White from destroying Halloween. The player can access both the past and the future, where the past is before the foundation of the children's hometown, and the future takes place in a dental dystopia. As in Costume Quest, the gameplay mostly involves exploring the environment, completing quests, trick-or-treating, and fighting monsters in turn-based combat as gigantic versions of their costumed selves. The game introduces many new combat mechanics not found in the original Costume Quest, such as counters and double attacks.

Cotton 100%	Cotton 100% garnered generally positive reception from critics who reviewed the original Super Famicom version as an import title. Most reviewers compared the game with other shoot 'em up titles like Keio Flying Squadron, Parodius and Pop'n TwinBee, being praised for its audiovisual presentation and gameplay but criticized for the short length and lack of two-player mode. It was later ported to the PlayStation in 2003 as a budget release, featuring downgrades compared with the original version. It was also re-released for Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 across western regions in 2021, marking the game's first official international appearance. It also released for Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S in 2023. 

Cotton Reboot!	Cotton: Fantastic Night Dreams is a scrolling shooter video game developed by Success and originally released in Japanese arcades in 1991. The first installment in the Cotton series, players assume the role of the young witch Cotton who, alongside her fairy companion Silk, sets out on her broomstick on a quest to defeat several monsters and get her Willow candy. Its gameplay mainly consists of shooting mixed with role-playing game elements using a main two-button configuration. It ran on the Sega System 16 hardware.

CounterSpy	The games received mixed to positive reviews and was praised for its art and soundtrack.

Crash Bandicoot 4: It's About Time	Crash Bandicoot 4: It's About Time is a 2020 platform game developed by Toys for Bob and published by Activision. It was originally released for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, with releases for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and Windows following in 2021. The eighth main installment in the Crash Bandicoot series, the game's story follows Crash Bandicoot and his sister Coco as they recover the all-powerful Quantum Masks in a bid to prevent Doctor Neo Cortex and Doctor Nefarious Tropy from taking over the multiverse. They are indirectly aided by their former enemy Dingodile and an adventuring alternate-dimension counterpart of Crash's old girlfriend Tawna.

Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy	Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy is a 2017 platform video game compilation developed by Vicarious Visions and published by Activision. It includes remasters of the first three games in the Crash Bandicoot series: Crash Bandicoot (1996), Cortex Strikes Back (1997), and Warped (1998); which were originally developed by Naughty Dog for the PlayStation. Initially released for the PlayStation 4, it was later ported to Nintendo Switch, Windows, and Xbox One in 2018. N. Sane Trilogy received generally positive reviews from critics and sold over 10 million copies by February 2019.

Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled	NitroFueled was released worldwide for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on June 21, 2019. It received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised the gameplay, controls, graphics, abundance of content, and faithfulness to the original game, though its high difficulty curve and post-release addition of microtransactions were criticized. The game also won several awards.

Crawl	Crawl is a brawler indie game by Australian developer Powerhoof. Up to four players and bots in local multiplayer advance through randomly generated dungeons with one player as the hero and the others as spirits who possess traps and monsters in the environment to kill and thus replace the hero. The game received a Steam Early Access release for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux platforms in August 2014, and a full release for those three as well as PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in April 2017 and a release for Nintendo Switch on December 19, 2017.

Crayola Scoot	On Metacritic, the Nintendo Switch and Xbox One versions of Crayola Scoot received average scores of 74% and 66% respectively based on five reviews for each platform, indicating "mixed or average" reviews.

Creaks	Creaks begins in the bedroom of the unnamed player character, who is seen sitting at his desk when the light flickers and dies, and the wallpaper peels away to reveal a secret tunnel behind his wall. The protagonist ventures through the newly discovered tunnel and, after climbing down a ladder, finds himself in a massive mansion-like structure contained within an enormous cavern. He encounters aggressive monsters that become harmless inanimate objects when seen under the light. He also discovers that there is a giant feline monster slowly destroying the mansion by climbing on it.

The Crew	Upon release, The Crew received mixed reviews from critics who praised the game's world design but criticized the always-online aspect, which created technical glitches and other issues, the difficult-to-understand user interface, and the presence of microtransactions. The game shipped two million units by January 1, 2015. The first expansion, titled The Crew: Wild Run, was released on November 17, 2015. The second expansion, entitled The Crew: Calling All Units, was announced at Gamescom 2016 and released on November 29, 2016.

The Crew 2	The Crew 2 is an online 2018 racing video game developed by Ubisoft Ivory Tower and published by Ubisoft for PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One, and Google Stadia. It is the sequel to 2014's The Crew. It features a persistent open world environment for free-roaming across a scaled-down recreation of the contiguous United States. The game allows players to control a variety of vehicles including cars, motorcycles, boats, and airplanes.

Cricket 19	Cricket 19 is a 2019 cricket video game developed and published by Big Ant Studios. It is the official video game of the 2019 Ashes series of cricket matches, and the (first) sequel to the 2017 game Ashes Cricket. It was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on 28 May 2019 and on 31 July for Microsoft Windows via Steam.

 It was added to Xbox Game Pass on 22 October 2020.

Cricket 22	Cricket 22 is a 2021 cricket video game developed by Big Ant Studios and published by Nacon. It is the official video game of the 202122 Ashes series of cricket matches, and the sequel to the 2019 game Cricket 19. It released on the 2 December 2021 as a curtain-raiser prior to the start of the 202122 Ashes series which were held in Australia in December 2021. The Nintendo Switch version of the game was expected to be released in January 2022 and was later confirmed for 28 April 2022. This is the second Big Ant Studios game to be released for the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S, the first being Tennis World Tour 2.

Cris Tales	The game is a turn-based RPG, along with the ability to time jump, both on the map and in-battle, affecting the gameplay. Each playable character has their own unique abilities.

Crisis Core -Final Fantasy VII- Reunion	Crisis Core: Final Fantasy VII is an action role-playing game developed and published by Square Enix for the PlayStation Portable. The game was first released in 2007, and serves as a prequel to the 1997 video game Final Fantasy VII. It is part of the metaseries Compilation of Final Fantasy VII, which includes other products related to the original game.

CrossCode	CrossCode is a 2018 action role-playing game developed by Radical Fish Games and published by Deck13. Players control Lea, a player in a fictional MMORPG called CrossWorlds who wakes up with no memory and is unable to speak. Gameplay involves the player employing both ranged and melee shots to solve puzzles and defeat enemies, with differing elemental modes granting different powers used in combat and exploring.

Crossing Souls	Crossing Souls plays in 1945, where archeologist Dr. Carter Jones is sent by the U.S. government onto a secret mission to recover the Duat Stone, an artifact of mysterious, supernormal power, leading him to a forgotten tomb in the Valley of the Kings near Cairo, Egypt. Dr. Jones is able to get a hold of the stone, but disappears and is never found. Half a century later, in 1986, five teenage friends, Chris, Matt, Charlie, Big Joe and Kevin, discover his corpse on a bicycle trip through the woods outside their quiet town in California, and with it also the Duat Stone. Taking the stone home and driven by curiosity, Matt is able to build a device with which the friends are able to unlock and control the stone's power. Though the friends do not fully understand the artifact's power, they find out that it is able to make them see and interact with the spirits of the dead. However, their curiosity gets into the scope of former U.S. Army general Colonel Beringer, self-proclaimed Major Oh Russ, who had organized the Duat Stone's recovery in 1945, and now wants to stop the friends to get deeper into the artifact's power. While the five teenagers go on an epic journey to uncover the secret behind the artifact and the spirits, that are made visible for them, Oh Russ threatens them and captures their parents and friends, to regain the Duat Stone himself and receive the power to control the deceased to accomplish his world invasion plan. At the end of the game, after Oh Russ' death, the two surviving members of the team, Chris and Charlie, activate the interdimensional portal to defeat Seth, who was Oh Russ' master and the Egyptian god of destruction that usurped his brother Osis' position as the Keeper of the Living Balance. Chris and Charlie destroy Seth with their own souls, thus saving their families and loved ones at the cost of their own lives.

Crypt of the NecroDancer	Crypt of the NecroDancer is a roguelike rhythm game by Brace Yourself Games. The game takes fundamental elements of a roguelike dungeon exploration game and adds a beat-matching rhythm game set to an original soundtrack written by Danny Baranowsky. The player's actions are most effective when moving the character set to the beat of the current song and are impaired when they miss a beat, so it is necessary to learn the rhythmic patterns that the various creatures follow. The mixed-genre game includes the ability to import custom music, and the option to use a dance pad instead of traditional controllers or the keyboard. The game was released for Linux, OS X, and Windows in April 2015, being co-published by Klei Entertainment, for the PlayStation 4 and Vita in February 2016, for the Xbox One in February 2017, and for Nintendo Switch in February 2018. Crypt of the NecroDancer Pocket Edition, developed for iOS, was released in June 2016.

Cryptark	Cryptark is a 2D sci-fi shooter that challenges players with boarding and neutralizing procedurally generated alien starships to earn income for their Privateering enterprise. Players beat each mission by destroying an enemy ship's central core, earning money that they can then use to purchase weapons/equipment for their next missions. Once the player runs out of money the campaign is over.

Crysis Remastered	Crysis is a first-person shooter video game developed by Crytek and published by Electronic Arts for Microsoft Windows and released in November 2007. It is the first game in the Crysis series. A standalone expansion entitled Crysis Warhead was released in 2008, following similar events as Crysis but from a different narrative perspective. At the time Crysis was released, and years thereafter, it has been praised for its milestones in graphical design (commensurate with high hardware requirements).

Crystal Crisis	Crystal Crisis is a competitive tile-matching puzzle video game developed and published by Nicalis, released on Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Microsoft Windows via Steam in 2019. It is inspired by Capcom's Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo and features crossover appearances by several characters from other Nicalis video games, as well as additional guest characters from companies such as Tezuka Productions.

Crystar	The player controls a girl named Rei Hatada, who makes a deal with twin demons of Purgatory, and the story progresses as the player fights the souls that drift about Purgatory. The concept of the game revolves around crying, which purifies new equipment to use. By defeating specific enemies, "Memoirs of the Dead," final thoughts of the dead, will appear, and crying will purify those thoughts and develop the protagonist mentally.

Cube Life: Island Survival HD	The game was one of the first sandbox video games released for the Wii U. This has been seen as a niche in the market and is sometimes regarded as one of the main reasons for its relatively large success for an indie Minecraft clone.

Cuphead	Cuphead is a 2017 side-scrolling run and gun video game developed and published by Studio MDHR. The game follows Cuphead, a small, anthropomorphic cup who, in a deal with the Devil after losing a game at the Devil's casino, is sent on a quest to repossess the souls of runaway debtors as payment for Cuphead's loss. In the game, up to two players control Cuphead and/or his brother Mugman to fight through several levels and boss fights; the game does not have a rigid narrative structure. As the game progresses, the protagonist acquires more power and abilities, eventually threatening the Devil himself. Players, however, can only equip a limited number of these abilities at a given time.

Curses 'N Chaos	Curses 'N Chaos is a 2D, wave-based, arena-brawler video game with a focus on 2-player co-op by independent developer Tribute Games. The game was released on August 18, 2015 for Windows, OS X, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation Vita.

Curse of the Dead Gods	Curse of the Dead Gods  is a roguelike and a dungeon crawler played from an isometric perspective. In the game, the player assumes control of an explorer who must navigate three different dungeons in search for money, power and eternal life. The dungeons are procedurally generated, and each of them are filled with deadly traps, hazards and hostile enemies. As the player progresses, they collect new weapons and unlock new upgrades. They also slowly earn Crystal Skulls and Jade Rings, which can be used to purchase permanent upgrades. These upgrades are automatically unlocked during subsequent runs and trials. The game features 12 different weapon classes. Different weapons have different attributes, and weapon effects can be combined. Players also need to manage their stamina during combat.

Cyberdimension Neptunia: 4 Goddesses Online	A world known as Gamindustri ( Geimugy-kai, a pun on  Gmu gykai, which is literally "game industry" in Japanese) protected by the divine aegis of the four CPUs (Console Patron Units, the goddesses) and their sisters, the CPU candidates. Most of the game takes place inside "4 Goddesses Online" a recurring fictional multiplayer online role-playing game that has been referenced throughout the series.

Cyber Troopers Virtual-On Masterpiece 19952001	The mecha designs for all installments of the series were created by robot designer Hajime Katoki.

Daisenryaku: Dai Toua Kouboushi 3	Games in the franchise have been released for many platforms including the PC-88, X1, FM-7, MSX, Famicom, Mega Drive, Turbo CD, Game Boy, Game Gear, Super Famicom, Sega Saturn, Dreamcast, Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS, PlayStation, PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4, Windows, Macintosh and other mobile devices.

Dakar 18	Dakar 18 is a racing video game simulation developed by Portuguese studio Bigmoon Entertainment and published by Deep Silver for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Microsoft Windows. It is based on the annual rally raid organized by the Amaury Sport Organisation (A.S.O). It was the first officially licensed Dakar Rally game since Dakar 2: The World's Ultimate Rally in 2003.

Dandara	Dandara is a 2D platformer and Metroidvania game. Players take control of the eponymous protagonist who traverses the game's world by warping between white surfaces. The game's protagonist and themes are based on the life of Brazilian historical figure Dandara.

Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony	Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony is a visual novel developed and published by Spike Chunsoft. The game was released in Japan in January 2017 for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita, and in North America and Europe by NIS America in September 2017. A Windows version was released worldwide on the same date. An enhanced version of V3 with the subtitle Anniversary Edition was released for Nintendo Switch in Japan in November 2021, and worldwide in December 2021. This improved version was also released for Android and iOS in April 2022, and for Windows 10 and Xbox One in September 2022.

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls	A manga adaptation/continuation of the game, Genocider Mode, was published by Kadokawa Shoten and Dark Horse Comics across two separate runs from January 27, 2015 to October 13, 2017, respectively written and illustrated by Machika Minami and Touya Hajime, while an anime sequel, "Ultra Despair Girls", aired on August 22, 2016 as the seventh episode of Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School.

Dangerous Golf	Dangerous Golf is a miniature golf game developed by Three Fields Entertainment, a studio formed by former Criterion Games founders and developers Fiona Sperry and Alex Ward. The game, as stated by the studio, is a mix of Burnout, Black, and NBA Jam, in which players attempt to cause the most destruction by playing miniature golf within a confined space, such as a china shop or a kitchen. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in June 2016.

Danger Zone	Danger Zone is a video game developed by Three Fields Entertainment. The game involves driving vehicles at high speeds into various traffic situations to cause as much damage as possible. It is directly inspired by the Crash mode in the various Burnout games developed by Criterion Games, which the founders of Three Fields had been a part of prior to founding their own studio. It was released in May 2017 on Microsoft Windows and PlayStation 4 systems, and in October 2017 for Xbox One.

Dangun Feveron	Dangun Feveron is a 1998 vertical-scrolling shooter arcade game developed by Cave and published by Nihon System in Japan. Players control a fighter craft and must destroy waves of enemies throughout a series of scrolling stages that increase in difficulty. The game's scoring system is designed to encourage players to destroy as many enemies possible, as points are subtracted based on how many enemies leave the screen. It is known for its elaborate disco-inspired presentation, soundtrack, and sassy voiceovers.

Dariusburst Chronicle Saviours	A related arcade game, titled Dariusburst Another Chronicle, was released in December 2010. An update, Dariusburst Another Chronicle EX, was released in 2011. An enhanced port of the original game for iOS and Android devices, titled Dariusburst Second Prologue, was released on February 10, 2012, and on October 24, 2015 in North America. An enhanced port of Another Chronicle, titled Dariusburst Chronicle Saviours, was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Microsoft Windows (through Steam) in December 2015.

Darius Cozmic Collection	There are six editions of Darius Cozmic Collection:

Dark Devotion	Dark Devotion follows a Templar Knight initiate who is tasked by their god with exploring a fallen temple. She has to balance her faith and bravery while attempting to clear out the demons inside of it. It received mixed reviews form critics.

The Dark Pictures Anthology: Little Hope	The Dark Pictures Anthology: Little Hope is a 2020 interactive drama and survival horror video game with psychological and folk horror elements developed by Supermassive Games and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. The second installment in The Dark Pictures Anthology, Little Hope serves as the sequel to the anthology's season premiere, Man of Medan. Will Poulter stars as the game's leading actor and plays the role of one of the protagonists, named Andrew. Set in the fictional eponymous town, located in Massachusetts, the game follows four college students chaperoned by their professor. After their bus crashes by the area, the group finds themselves trapped within Little Hope by an impenetrable fog. As they explore the deserted town, the characters are pursued by demons whose appearances are reminiscent of the ways in which the townspeople of Little Hope's colonial era died.

The Dark Pictures Anthology: Man of Medan	The Dark Pictures Anthology: Man of Medan is a 2019 interactive drama and survival horror video game with paranormal horror elements developed by Supermassive Games and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. It is the first out of eight planned installments in The Dark Pictures Anthology, a series of standalone horror video games. Man of Medan features a cast of five playable protagonists and a multilinear narrative influenced by player choice. The game's decision-making scenes, of which there are several, can significantly alter the trajectory of the plot and change the relationships between the main characters. Due to these choices, any of the five protagonists can die permanently.

Dark Rose Valkyrie	The game plays as a Japanese role-playing game, but also includes visual novel segments where the player must interview characters to identify a potential traitor among the player's party of characters. Similar to gameplay mechanics found in Ace Attorney and Danganronpa games, the player must review statements from characters and try to identify contradictions in their accounts of events.

Dark Souls Remastered	Dark Souls is a 2011 action role-playing game developed by FromSoftware and published by Namco Bandai Games. A spiritual successor to FromSoftware's Demon's Souls, the game is the first in the Dark Souls series. The game takes place in the kingdom of Lordran, where players assume the role of a cursed undead character who begins a pilgrimage to discover the fate of their kind. A port for Windows featuring additional content, known as the Prepare to Die Edition, was released in August 2012. It was also released for consoles  under the subtitle Artorias of the Abyss in October 2012.

Dark Souls II	Dark Souls II is a 2014 action role-playing game developed by FromSoftware. The second installment of the Dark Souls series, it was released for Windows, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 by FromSoftware in Japan and Bandai Namco Games internationally. Taking place in the kingdom of Drangleic, the game features both player versus environment (PvE) and player versus player (PvP) gameplay. Dark Souls II was released in March 2014 after some initial delays, with the Windows version being released the following month.

Dark Souls III	Dark Souls III is a 2016 action role-playing game developed by FromSoftware and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Windows. The third and final entry in the Dark Souls series, it is played in a third-person perspective, and players have access to various weapons, armour, magic, and consumables that they can use to fight their enemies. Hidetaka Miyazaki, the creator of the series, returned to direct the game after handing the development duties of Dark Souls II to others.

Darkest Dungeon	Darkest Dungeon has the player manage a roster of heroes to explore dungeons below a gothic mansion the player has inherited. Played out in a mix of real-time movement and turn-based combat, a core feature of Darkest Dungeon is the stress level of each hero that increases with further exploration and combat; a character sustaining a high-stress level may gain afflictions that will hamper, or possibly enhance, their performance as an explorer. The Stress Symbol, or Iron Crown, a crescent with five inward-facing spikes, is also in the game's logo.

Darksiders Genesis	Darksiders Genesis is a top-down hack and slash action role-playing video game developed by American studio Airship Syndicate and published by THQ Nordic. The game was released for Stadia and Windows on 5 December 2019, and was released on the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on 14 February 2020. It is considered a spin-off prequel game in the Darksiders series and introduces the fourth Horseman of the Apocalypse, Strife, as the protagonist. Strife can also team up with his brother, War. Upon release, the game received positive reviews, with many reviewers praising the combat.

Darksiders: Warmastered Edition	A remastered version of the game named Darksiders: Warmastered Edition was released on November 22, 2016, for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One and on November 29, 2016, for Microsoft Windows. A Wii U version was released on May 23, 2017, and a Nintendo Switch version was released on April 2, 2019.

Darksiders II: Deathinitive Edition	A remastered version, titled Darksiders II: Deathinitive Edition, was published by Nordic Games for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Microsoft Windows in 2015, ported to the Nintendo Switch in 2019, and released in Google Stadia in 2021. A parallel sequel, Darksiders III, was released on November 27, 2018. After that came Darksiders Genesis, the game was released for Stadia and Windows on December, 5, 2019, and was released on the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on February, 14, 2020.

Darksiders III	Darksiders III is a 2018 action role-playing game developed by Gunfire Games and published by THQ Nordic. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in November 2018. A Stadia version and Nintendo Switch port released in September 2021. It is the third entry in the Darksiders series.

Darkwood	Darkwood is a survival horror video game developed and published by Acid Wizard Studio. The game was first released through Steam Early Access on July 24, 2014, eventually becoming a full game release on August 17, 2017 for Linux, macOS, and Windows. The game takes place in a mysterious dark forest "somewhere in the territory of the Soviet Bloc", wherein the main characters have been trapped. On March 20, 2019, a Nintendo Switch version was announced during the Nindies Nintendo Direct and was released on May 16, 2019. The game was also ported and released for the PlayStation 4 on May 14, 2019, for Xbox One on May 16, under the publisher Crunching Koalas, and for Google Stadia on September 17, 2021. It later released for PlayStation 5 on October 28, 2022, and for Xbox Series X/S on December 23, 2022.

Daylight	The player's goal in each level is to search for notes and logs from the hospital's past, referred to as "remnants", by looking for markings using glow sticks. Once all remnants in a level have been collected, the player is able to acquire a "sigil", an item of significance to the hospital's past, such as a teddy bear and a Bible. Bringing the sigil to "the Seal of Shadows" will unlock the next part of the building, allowing the player to advance further into the hospital and, possibly, to freedom.

Daymare: 1998	Daymare: 1998 is a third-person survival horror game developed by Invader Studios and published by Destructive Creations and All In! Games on September 17, 2019, for Microsoft Windows, and on April 28, 2020, for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.

Day of the Tentacle: Remastered Edition	Day of the Tentacle, also known as Maniac Mansion II: Day of the Tentacle, is a 1993 graphic adventure game developed and published by LucasArts. It is the sequel to the 1987 game Maniac Mansion. The plot follows Bernard Bernoulli and his friends Hoagie and Laverne as they attempt to stop the evil Purple Tentacle - a sentient, disembodied tentacle - from taking over the world. The player takes control of the trio and solves puzzles while using time travel to explore different periods of history.

Days Gone	Days Gone is a 2019 action-adventure video game developed by Bend Studio and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The game was released for the PlayStation 4 in April 2019. A Windows port was released in May 2021.

DayZ	DayZ is a multiplayer-focused survival video game developed and published by Bohemia Interactive. It is the standalone game based on the mod of the same name for Arma 2. Following a five-year-long early access period for Windows, the game was officially released in December 2018, and was released for the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 in 2019.

Dead by Daylight	Dead by Daylight is an online asymmetric multiplayer survival horror video game developed and published by Canadian studio Behaviour Interactive. It is a one-versus-four game in which one player takes on the role of a Killer and the other four play as Survivors; the Killer must impale each Survivor on sacrificial hooks to appease a malevolent force known as the Entity, while the Survivors have to avoid being caught and power up the exit gates by working together to fix five generators.

Dead Cells	Dead Cells is a 2018 roguelike-Metroidvania game developed by Motion Twin and Evil Empire, and published by Motion Twin. The player takes the role of an amorphous creature called the Prisoner. As the Prisoner, the player must fight their way out of a diseased island in order to slay the island's King. The player gains weapons, treasure and other tools through exploration of the procedurally-generated levels. Dead Cells features a permadeath system, causing the player to lose all items and other abilities upon dying. A currency called Cells can be collected from defeated enemies, allowing the player to purchase permanent upgrades.  

Dead Island Definitive Edition	Dead Island: Riptide received a mixed reception from critics, who cited that the game did not fix any of its predecessor's problems, nor add anything new to the gameplay. The next mainline entry in the series, Dead Island 2, was revealed at E3 2014. It was originally set for a 2016 release; however, the game entered development hell after the project was moved over from Yager Development to Sumo Digital in 2016. The development of Dead Island 2 changed hands again in 2019, this time to an internal studio of Deep Silver, Dambuster Studios, and was eventually released on April 21, 2023.

Dead Island 2	Dead Island 2 is a 2023 action role-playing game developed by Dambuster Studios and published by Deep Silver. It is a sequel to the 2011 video game Dead Island and the third major installment in the Dead Island series. Set about 15 years after the events of Dead Island and Dead Island: Riptide, Dead Island 2 differentiates itself from its predecessors by taking place in the city of Los Angeles, which has been quarantined due to a zombie outbreak. The game was released on 21 April 2023, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

Deadlight: Director's Cut	Deadlight is a sidescrolling cinematic platforming survival horror video game developed by Tequila Works and published by Microsoft Studios for Xbox 360 and Microsoft Windows. It was released for Xbox 360 in August 2012 via Xbox Live Arcade, and for Windows in October via Steam. In 2016, a Director's Cut version of the game was released for Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, published by Deep Silver.

Deadly Dozen Reloaded	The twelve characters have different specializations: sniper, demolition expert and so on. For every mission, the player selects four of European theater.

The Deadly Tower of Monsters	The Deadly Tower of Monsters is an action-adventure game developed by ACE Team and published by Atlus USA for Microsoft Windows and PlayStation 4 in January 2016. The game is a metafictional parody of science fiction midnight B movie from its golden age, with caricatural superheroes.

Dead Nation: Apocalypse Edition	Players are awarded score multipliers and money when zombies are killed. Money is used to purchase and upgrade weapons at checkpoints, and multipliers to grant better scores. Each time players are hit, they lose multipliers and health. Players fight their way through ten levels, using weapon shops that allow weapon upgrading and armor swapping. Throughout the levels, players can find boxes that hold ammunition, multipliers, money, or armor pieces, and also loot cars and trunks for money. If a car is blown up before being looted, though, the loot is lost. At times the players are trapped in areas where they must survive until they have accomplished a certain goal (e.g. wait for an elevator while fighting zombies or kill all zombies in the area). Armor sets influence strength, endurance and agility.

Dead or Alive 5 Last Round	Dead or Alive 5 Last Round features all the content from Dead or Alive 5 Ultimate, adding new costumes and customizable hairstyles for outside PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions, as well as two new characters and two new stages for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. The PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions received upgraded graphics, running at 1080p resolution and 60 frames per second, with the main menu and cutscenes running at 30 frames per second. These two versions also use the new game engine  called Soft Engine and  designed to better depict "softness" of character's bodies. Since the appearance of the Senran Kagura DLC costume pack, the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions have clothing breaker mechanisms for certain DLC collaboration outfits, including female characters' Valentine's Day DLC outfits when using a Critical Burst finisher on the opponent who wears some DLC collaboration outfit, similar to the Armor Breaker from other Sega AM2's Fighting Vipers.

Dead or Alive 6	Dead or Alive 6 was praised for its polished gameplay, battle arenas, and its beginner-friendly tutorials, but was criticized for its multiplayer functions as well as the absence of online lobbies at launch. A free-to-play version of the game titled Dead or Alive 6: Core Fighters was released on March 15, 2019.

Dead or Alive Xtreme 3	Dead or Alive Xtreme 3 is a sports video game in the Dead or Alive series developed by Team Ninja and published by Koei Tecmo as the second sequel to the beach volleyball spin-off title Dead or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball. It was originally released in 2016, under two titles for the two different platforms, as Dead or Alive Xtreme 3: Fortune for PlayStation 4 and as Dead or Alive Xtreme 3: Venus for PlayStation Vita. The game was distributed in Asian territories, where it does contain an English language option, along with Simplified Chinese, Traditional Chinese and Korean language options. A PC downloadable version called Dead or Alive Xtreme Venus Vacation was released in 2017. An update for PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch ports, entitled Dead or Alive Xtreme 3: Scarlet was released in 2019, followed by a Steam port of Venus Vacation for specific Asia regions six days later, with support for English, Simplified Chinese, Traditional Chinese and Korean languages. Following the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic, a Japanese version of Venus Vacation Steam port was released on August 19, 2020, which immediately continues DMM version's recent events.

Deadpool	Deadpool is an action-adventure video game based on the Marvel Comics antihero of the same name. It was developed by High Moon Studios and published by Activision for Microsoft Windows (in digital format only), PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 in June 2013. Written by Daniel Way, the game's story follows Deadpool as he joins forces with the X-Men and Cable to thwart Mister Sinister's latest scheme, getting into numerous comedic adventures along the way. Similarly to other media featuring the character, the game includes self-referential humor and numerous fourth wall breaks.

Dead Rising	Dead Rising is a 2006 action-adventure game developed and published by Capcom. The game is the first entry in the Dead Rising series. The story follows photojournalist Frank West after he becomes trapped in a zombie infested shopping mall in the town of Williamette, Colorado. Frank must uncover the mystery behind the outbreak before a rescue helicopter arrives in three days to evacuate him. The game features multiple endings depending on the conditions met by the player.

Dead Rising 2	Dead Rising 2 is a 2010 action-adventure game developed by Blue Castle Games and published by Capcom. It was released between September and October 2010 for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Microsoft Windows. It is a sequel to Dead Rising, and is the second entry in the series of the same name. The game features a number of new features and improvements to its predecessor, including multiplayer options.

Dead Rising 2: Off the Record	Dead Rising 2: Off the Record is a 2011 action-adventure game developed by Capcom Vancouver and published by Capcom. It is a reimagining of Dead Rising 2, with that game's protagonist, Chuck Greene, replaced by Frank West from the first Dead Rising.

Dead Rising 4	Dead Rising 4 is a 2016 action-adventure game developed by Capcom Vancouver and published by Microsoft Studios. The game was released for Windows and Xbox One on December 6, 2016. It is the sequel to Dead Rising 3 and the fourth installment in the Dead Rising series. It features the return of Frank West, and is set in a rebuilt Willamette, Colorado during the Winter holiday season.

Dead Synchronicity: Tomorrow Comes Today	Fictiorama Studios consists of three brothers, Mario, Luis, and Alberto Olivn, and artist Martn Martnez. This story was pitched by Alberto, and the art, plot, and music were designed to fit his vision. The developers cited influences such as The Secret of Monkey Island, 12 Monkeys, and The Road, among others.  The art style borrows from expressionism and tribal art.

Dear Esther	The Chinese Room released a spiritual successor to Dear Esther, titled Everybody's Gone to the Rapture, in 2015.

Death Come True	Death Come True is a 2020 interactive film adventure game developed by Too Kyo Games and Esquadra and published by IzanagiGames for Android, iOS, macOS, Nintendo Switch, Windows, and PlayStation 4. The game was written and directed by Kazutaka Kodaka, better known as the creator of the Danganronpa series.

Death end re;Quest	The game is played from two separate character's perspectives; Arata Mizunashi and Shina Ninomiya. Both characters had previously worked together as video game programmers a year prior for a virtual reality MMORPG called "World's Odyssey", until development was halted due to an unexplained disappearance of Shina. After a year passes, Arata stumbles upon access to the game and is shocked to find that the game's servers are still on, and Shina is trapped within the game with partial amnesia. The two learn that Shina is trapped in the virtual reality game until she finishes the game herself, which is complicated by the fact that the game was unfinished, and has been apparently hacked and altered by a third party as well.

Death end re;Quest 2	The game is played from two separate character's perspectives; Arata Mizunashi and Shina Ninomiya. Both characters had previously worked together as video game programmers a year prior for a virtual reality MMORPG called "World's Odyssey", until development was halted due to an unexplained disappearance of Shina. After a year passes, Arata stumbles upon access to the game and is shocked to find that the game's servers are still on, and Shina is trapped within the game with partial amnesia. The two learn that Shina is trapped in the virtual reality game until she finishes the game herself, which is complicated by the fact that the game was unfinished, and has been apparently hacked and altered by a third party as well.

Death Stranding	Death Stranding is a 2019 action game developed by Kojima Productions and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It is the first game from director Hideo Kojima and Kojima Productions after their split from Konami in 2015. A Windows port licensed by Sony was released by 505 Games in July 2020. A director's cut was released for the PlayStation 5 and Windows in September 2021, followed by a release for Windows in March 2022. Versions for iOS, iPadOS and macOS were released in January 2024.

Death Squared	Death Squared received "generally favorable" reviews for the Nintendo Switch and Xbox One versions, while the PlayStation 4 version received "mixed or average" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic. Writing for Destructoid, Kevin McClusky gave a positive review of the Nintendo Switch version of the game, saying that while the single player mode is enjoyable, it was "much more fun" to "give the second controller to another player and shout advice at one another as you try to work your way through the maze." McClusky also complimented the level design, calling the levels "clean and easy to read" and while he noticed some lag while the game was in fullscreen mode calling it "annoying" he mentioned it never affected the gameplay and was hopeful that it would be addressed in a future software update.

Death's Door	Death's Door is a 3D, isometric action-adventure game. The player takes on the role of a small crow who works as a "reaper" collecting souls for the Reaping Commission Headquarters, an office-like bureaucratic afterlife. For the first mission of the game, the character is sent to collect the soul of a monster who does not want to leave life willingly. After defeating it, a large, old crow intervenes and steals the soul before telling him of a potential conspiracy regarding the disappearance of other crows. The old crow explains that the player must make their way through three dungeons in order to collect three "Giant Souls" needed to open Death's Door. Throughout the game, more information is revealed about the Reaping Commission's background and leader, the Lord of Doors. Using an array of weapons, projectiles, magic, and dodging, the player travels through several areas, all of which link back to Headquarters via a door, defeating three bosses to collect Giant Souls. Upon unlocking the door, the player learns that the bureaucracy was created when Death entered into an arrangement with the first Lord of Doors to process souls on Death's behalf in exchange for extending the life of the Lord of Doors until they appoint a successor. Instead of appointing a successor and accepting the end of their life, the current Lord instead imprisoned Death behind the door in order to gain immortality. The final boss fight is with the Lord of Doors, after which the bureaucracy is dismantled. After the credits, the player can switch to night mode and solve puzzles in each of the levels to collect Tablets of Knowledge which unlock the true ending, revealing the crows were acting on the will of the entity known as Truth.

Death's Gambit	Death's Gambit is a side-scrolling action role-playing game featuring Soulslike and Metroidvania elements. The game is presented from a 2D perspective with a pixel art aesthetic.

Deathsmiles I & II	Deathsmiles is a horizontal side-scrolling bullet hell where the players and must stop monsters from invading the world of Gilverado. There are 5 playable characters: Windia (Wind Magic), Follett (Fire Magic), Casper (Death Magic), Rosa (Spirit Magic) and Sakura (Magician).

De Blob	De Blob was developed by Blue Tongue Entertainment for the Wii, while a cancelled version for the Nintendo DS was being developed by Helixe, with both versions being published by THQ. The game was originally scheduled for a February 2008 release, but was delayed and then released on 22 September for the Wii. An iOS adaption of the game was released earlier on 8 July the same year.

De Blob 2	In 2017, THQNordic collaborated with BlitWorks to re-release de Blob 2 (as well as the first de Blob) for then-current generation platforms. Both games were released on June 22, 2017, for Windows and in 2018 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on February 27, and August 28 for Nintendo Switch.

Deception IV: The Nightmare Princess	An expanded version titled Deception IV: The Nightmare Princess, known in Japan as Kagero: Another Princess ( 1), was released in Japan on March 26, 2015 for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, and PlayStation Vita. The Nightmare Princess is the first Deception game to be released on the PlayStation 4; it was also made available in digital format on the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita on the same date. It was released in North America on July 14 and in Europe on July 17.

Deemo: Reborn	Deemo is a rhythm video game developed by Taiwanese game developer Rayark. The game was released on iOS and Android mobile platforms on 13 November 2013. An enhanced port for the PlayStation Vita, titled Deemo: Last Recital (Japanese: DEEMO), first announced late 2014, was released in June 2015. A Nintendo Switch port was released worldwide in September 2017. A remake of the entire game in 3D, titled Deemo -REBORN-, was announced in October 2017 for PlayStation 4 with PlayStation VR compatibility, and was released on 21 November 2019. A PC port was released on 4 September 2020, and a mobile port for Android and iOS was announced on 23 November 2020. On 13 January 2022, Rayark announced the release of its sequel Deemo II.

Deep Sky Derelicts: Definitive Edition	Players create and customize three crew members sent to scavenge derelict spaceships.  Each character can choose from seven character classes.  Exploring derelicts is done via a 2D, procedurally-generated automap that simulates graph paper.  The rest of the game uses an art style similar to comic books.  While exploring, energy is expended for life support.  If energy runs out, the characters are injured.  When encountering hostile monsters or scavengers, combat is resolved through turn-based combat using cards.  A character's class and gear provide them with cards, which are shuffled and drawn randomly.  If these cards are not useful, new ones can be drawn, but this costs energy.  Each character has health and shields.  Shields regenerate after combat, but health does not.  The only way to recover health is by paying a medic.  Hardcore mode enforces permadeath, but players are otherwise able to load saved games to redo a failed combat or exploration mission.  Besides scavenging random derelicts, players can take side missions.

Defense Grid 2	The player takes on the role of the commander, tasked with defending bases, colonies, space stations, and outposts from waves of aliens attempting to grab and escape with the power cores housed in each location. The player views the game from a top-down perspective and has the ability to build various towers that attack and route the path for the waves of aliens. Once an alien reaches the power core housing, it will make its way back towards the exit. If the alien is killed on its way back, the core will drop and slowly float back to the core housing. Different towers provide various abilities that are good against different types of aliens so the player must build a strategy to defend the cores against all waves of aliens.

Deformers	Deformers is a multiplayer brawler game played from a third-person perspective. Players take control of squishy ball-shaped creatures called a Forms that are capable of rolling, jumping, dashing, and absorbing items. In the deathmatch and team deathmatch modes, the goal is to roll around and knock opponents off the arena platform. Form-ball is a mode that plays like association football, a ball must be knocked into a net to score goals. The game supports online 2, 3, and 4-player splitscreen as well as online multiplayer with up to eight players.

Deliver Us the Moon	Deliver Us the Moon is an adventure-puzzle game video game developed by Dutch game development studio KeokeN Interactive. It was first self-published as Deliver Us the Moon: Fortuna for Windows on September 28, 2018. The game later saw an expanded release on October 10, 2019, with Wired Productions serving as the publisher for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions on April 24, 2020. The game was released for Google Stadia on June 1, 2022. The game was also released for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S on June 23, 2022. Deliver Us the Moon was marketed as a science fiction thriller set in an apocalyptic near future; the game follows a lone astronaut who is sent to the moon on a mission to avert humanity's fate towards extinction after Earth's natural resources have been depleted. The original and re-released Windows versions released in September 2018 and October 2019, respectively. The Windows and PlayStation 5 versions were met with mixed reviews, while the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions were met with more positive reviews by video game publications.

Deltarune	Deltarune is a role-playing video game developed by Toby Fox. The player controls a human teenager, Kris, who is destined to save the world together with Susie, a monster, and Ralsei, a prince from the Dark World. During their quest to seal the Dark Fountains prophesied to end the world, the group makes both friends and foes. The combat system is turn-based and uses bullet hell mechanics. Similar to Undertale, enemy encounters can be resolved peacefully or through violence.

Demetrios: The Big Cynical Adventure	One night Bjorn Thonen, an antique dealer from Paris, Shmaris, is robbed after coming home drunk. A certain stone tablet was stolen and Bjorn is forced to conduct his own investigation. He gets help from his neighbor Sandra and her daughter Caroline. They travel to the fictional country of Nogo where they learn more about the tablet and the ancient legends about King Demetrios. They have to find all stone tablets in order to save the world.

Demon Gaze II	In Demon Gaze, the player controls Oz, a young man that possess the power of a magic eye capable of sealing demons. The gameplay is split between venturing into dungeons and spending time at the inn where players can build relationships with non-player characters or spend the money they have earned in the dungeons. A manga adaptation for Demon Gaze illustrated by Kurono began serialisation in Dengeki Maoh in December 2013. An international version of the game was released in Japan as Demon Gaze: Global Edition on July 3, 2014. An enhanced version of the game titled Demon Gaze EXTRA was released in September 2021 for the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 in Japan with a western release in January 2022. Upon the new changes HD graphics, the retry system, and the promise of future DLC that expands the post-game of Demon Gaze. The enhanced version was made available on Microsoft Windows via Steam in April 2022.

Demon Gaze Extra	In Demon Gaze, the player controls Oz, a young man that possess the power of a magic eye capable of sealing demons. The gameplay is split between venturing into dungeons and spending time at the inn where players can build relationships with non-player characters or spend the money they have earned in the dungeons. A manga adaptation for Demon Gaze illustrated by Kurono began serialisation in Dengeki Maoh in December 2013. An international version of the game was released in Japan as Demon Gaze: Global Edition on July 3, 2014. An enhanced version of the game titled Demon Gaze EXTRA was released in September 2021 for the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 in Japan with a western release in January 2022. Upon the new changes HD graphics, the retry system, and the promise of future DLC that expands the post-game of Demon Gaze. The enhanced version was made available on Microsoft Windows via Steam in April 2022.

Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba  The Hinokami Chronicles	Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba  The Hinokami Chronicles is a fighting action-adventure game developed by CyberConnect2. Based on the 2019 anime adaptation of Koyoharu Gotouge's manga series, Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba, the game was released by Aniplex in Japan, and globally by Sega, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S in October 2021. It was released for Nintendo Switch in June 2022.

Demon Turf	Demon Turf is a 3D platformer action-adventure game developed by Fabraz and published by Playtonic Friends. The game was released November 4, 2021 on Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

Demon's Tilt	Demon's Tilt occurs primarily on a pinball board that spans across three separate screens, one for each of the sections: Lilith, Hermit and Zodiac. They contain different objectives or items which help add to the player's multiplier score. The player is given three balls per game and moves the ball around the board by four pairs of flippers (two pairs on the first tier, the remaining two divided up among the other two tiers). By shaking the table, the trajectory of the ball can be shifted with the game's Nudge feature, designed to help the player control the ball. The player will face a number of enemy characters and obstacles around the board, along with boss characters that can cause ball loss. Unlike other pinball games, the tilt mechanics add a "hack 'n slash" gameplay element, allowing the player to use the ball to attack enemies and avoid obstacles. Another gameplay element is the incorporation of bullet hell mechanics, where enemy characters will fill the board with bullets that halt ball progress. A game over is triggered by the player losing all of their three balls.

Dengeki Bunko: Fighting Climax Ignition	An updated version of the game, titled Dengeki Bunko: Fighting Climax Ignition ( FIGHTING CLIMAX IGNITION, Dengeki Bunko Faitingu Kuraimakkusu Igunishion), was released in July 2015. The update contains additional characters and more balanced gameplay. The updated version was released on PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita in December 2015 only in Japan. The updated version's theme song is "ID" by LiSA.

Densha de Go!! Hashirou Yamanote Sen	Each Densha de Go title contains actual train (or tram) routes based on real services in Japan. For the most part, the user's task is to drive the train and adhere to a very exacting timetable, including stopping at stations to within as little as 30 cm of a prescribed stopping point, ideally within half a second of the scheduled arrival time. While the specifics vary slightly between versions, the user is expected to obey speed limits and other posted signs, sound a warning for work parties along the track, arrive at between-station waypoints on time, and perform similar tasks.

Deponia	Deponia is a graphic adventure video game developed and published by Daedalic Entertainment. The game's story sees players taking on the role of Rufus, an inhabitant of the junk planet Deponia, as he attempts to seek a new life on the floating city known as Elysium. However, he soon becomes embroiled with the task of helping an Elysian return to their home and uncovers a plot that threatens his home planet.

Deponia Doomsday	The game follows the principles of a classic point-and-click adventure: the user controls Rufus as he travels across highly detailed backgrounds as the plot continues. Rufus can startup conversations with other characters and put items in his inventory for later use. These items, combined or not, are used to solve puzzles and advance the story. Furthermore, the game has some optional minigames.

Descenders	Descenders is a downhill mountain biking video game which puts players in different environments. Each level in the game is procedurally generated. In each level, the player races a downward course on a relatively dirt trail. During the trials, the player gains opportunities to perform tricks with their bicycle. Each level also presents a set of random objectives to complete, such as performing a trick a certain number of times, or finishing a race within a certain time. Each level also contains checkpoints which serve as respawn points upon bailing. Bail often, and the player fails the level.

Desperados III	Desperados III is a real-time tactics stealth video game, where players need to clear specific objectives while navigating through the vast maps. Players can crouch and hide in bushes to avoid enemies' sight, which is displayed as green cones of vision; if the player is caught by it, the cone will start filling yellow, and if it reaches the player, it'll turn red and the enemy will be alerted of the player's position. It is possible to navigate the map without alerting the enemies.

Destiny	Destiny is an online first-person shooter video game developed by Bungie. It was released worldwide on September 9, 2014, for the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, and Xbox One consoles. Destiny marked Bungie's first new console franchise since the Halo series, and it was the first game in a ten-year agreement between Bungie and Activision. Set in a "mythological science fiction" world, the game features a multiplayer "shared-world" environment with elements of role-playing games. Activities in Destiny are divided among player versus environment (PvE) and player versus player (PvP) game types. In addition to normal story missions, PvE features three-player "strikes" and six-player raids. A free roam patrol mode is also available for each destination which feature public events. PvP features objective-based modes, as well as traditional deathmatch game modes.

Destiny 2	Destiny 2 is a free-to-play online first-person shooter video game developed by Bungie. It was originally released as a pay to play game in 2017 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Windows. It became free-to-play, utilizing the games as a service model, under the New Light title on October 1, 2019, followed by the game's release on Stadia the following month, and then PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S platforms in December 2020. The game was published by Activision until December 31, 2018, when Bungie acquired the publishing rights to the franchise. It is the sequel to 2014's Destiny and its subsequent expansions.

Destroy All Humans!	Destroy All Humans! was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on 28 July 2020. It was made available for Stadia on 8 December 2020. A Nintendo Switch port was released on 29 June 2021. It received mixed reviews from critics and had sold over 1 million units by May 2021.

Detention	The game's concept originates with the Red Candle Games co-founder Shun-ting "Coffee" Yao. In February 2017, a novel based on the game was published by novelist Ling Jing. A live action film adaptation  distributed by Warner Bros. Taiwan was released on 20 September 2019.

Detroit: Become Human	Detroit: Become Human is a 2018 adventure game developed by Quantic Dream. The game was released for the PlayStation 4 in May 2018, published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. A port for Windows was released in December 2019, published by Quantic Dream. The plot follows three androids: Kara (Valorie Curry), who escapes her owner to explore her newfound sentience and protect a young girl; Connor (Bryan Dechart), whose job is to hunt down sentient androids; and Markus (Jesse Williams), who devotes himself to releasing other androids from servitude. The player's choices affect the course and outcome of the story.

Deus Ex: Mankind Divided	Deus Ex: Mankind Divided is a 2016 action role-playing game developed by Eidos-Montral and published by Square Enix for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in August 2016. Versions for Linux and macOS systems were released in 2016 and 2017, respectively. The game is the sequel to Deus Ex: Human Revolution and the fifth installment in the Deus Ex series. The gameplay combines first-person shooter, stealth and role-playing elements. It features exploration and combat in environments connected to the main hub of Prague and quests which grant experience and allow customization of the main character's abilities with Praxis Kits. Conversations between characters have a variety of responses, with options in conversations and at crucial story points affecting how events play out. Players can complete Breach, a cyberspace-set challenge mode, in addition to the main campaign. Breach was later released as a free, standalone product.

Devil May Cry HD Collection	Devil May Cry is an American-Japanese action-adventure game franchise created by Hideki Kamiya. It is primarily developed and published by Capcom. The series centers on the demon hunter Dante and his efforts to thwart various demon invasions of Earth. Its gameplay consists of combat scenes in which the player must attempt to extend long chains of attacks, avoiding damage and exhibiting stylized combat by varying their attacks; this combat, along with time and the number of items collected and used, are considered in grading the player's performance. Across the series, new characters with unique skills are available.

Devil May Cry 4: Special Edition	Devil May Cry 4: Special Edition was conceived by director Hideaki Itsuno after working on the action role-playing game Dragon's Dogma (2012) and the reboot DmC: Devil May Cry (2013). Devil May Cry 4: Special Edition received generally positive reviews; the addition of new content and new playable characters, as well as improvements in general, were praised. It was criticized for not fixing the problems of the original game and repeating the same stages when a new character is selected.

Devil May Cry 5	Devil May Cry 5 is a 2019 action-adventure game developed and published by Capcom. It is the sixth installment overall and the fifth mainline installment in the Devil May Cry series. Capcom released it for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on 8 March 2019. The game takes place five years after Devil May Cry 4 and follows a trio of warriors with demonic powers, the returning Dante, Nero, and a new protagonist named V, as they attempt to stop the Demon King Urizen from destroying the human world. Across their journey in Red Grave City, the player can use these characters in different missions. Each of them has their own way of fighting and becoming stronger. As this happens, the mystery behind V is revealed, along with his connection with Urizen.

Dex	Dex is a 2D side-scrolling platform game focused on exploration and non-linear gameplay, more like a Role-playing game. The player controls the eponymous character, Dex, and receives quests from NPCs. Every quest has multiple possible solutions and it is up to player which of them to choose.

Diablo II: Resurrected	Diablo II: Resurrected is an action role-playing video game co-developed by Blizzard Entertainment and Blizzard Albany and published by Blizzard Entertainment. It is a remaster of Diablo II (2000) and its expansion Lord of Destruction (2001). The game was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X and Series S on September 23, 2021.

Diablo III	Diablo III is a 2012 online-only hack-and-slash action role-playing game developed and published by Blizzard Entertainment as the third installment in the Diablo franchise. It was released for Microsoft Windows and OS X in May 2012, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in September 2013, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in August 2014, and Nintendo Switch in November 2018. Set 20 years after the events of Diablo II, players control one of seven character classes  Barbarian, Crusader, Demon Hunter, Monk, Necromancer, Witch Doctor, or Wizard  and are tasked with defeating Diablo.

Diablo IV	Diablo IV  is a 2023 online-only action role-playing dungeon crawling game developed and published by Blizzard Entertainment. It is the fourth main installment in the Diablo series. Announced at BlizzCon 2019, the game was released on June 5, 2023 for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5, Xbox One and Xbox Series X and S, and Microsoft Windows. Players create a character from one of five playable classesBarbarian, Druid, Necromancer, Rogue, or Sorcererand use their skills to complete quests through combat. 

Digimon Story: Cyber Sleuth	A sequel, titled Digimon Story: Cyber Sleuth  Hacker's Memory, was released in Japan in 2017 and in Western territories in 2018. In July 2019, a port of the game and its sequel for Nintendo Switch and Windows, was announced for release on October 18, 2019, as Digimon Story Cyber Sleuth: Complete Edition, although the PC version was released a day early.

Digimon Story: Cyber Sleuth  Hacker's Memory	The game was released in Japan in December 14, 2017, and worldwide on January 19, 2018. A port of the game and its predecessor, Digimon Story Cyber Sleuth: Complete Edition, was released on October 18, 2019 for Nintendo Switch and Windows.

Digimon Survive	Digimon Survive is a visual novel with tactical role-playing game elements developed by Hyde and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One.

Digimon World: Next Order	Digimon World: Next Order is a role-playing game set in an open world environment and played from a third-person perspective where players take control of a human character who is accompanied by two partner Digimon. The player chooses from ten possible starting companions at the beginning of the game, who grow and evolve throughout the course of the story by taking part in battles and interacting with their owner. If the partner fails to meet the requirements for any of its next possible stages within a set amount of days, it collapses, dies, and is reborn into an egg of the player's choosing, each time with a slight boost to its stats. Players can increase the bond between their Digimon and themselves by praising, scolding, feeding, or offering items. Together, they travel through various environments completing objectives and advancing the story by interacting with non-player characters and battling enemy Digimon they encounter in the field.

Dirt 4	Dirt 4 (stylised as DiRT 4) is a simcade racing video game developed by Codemasters for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in June 2017, and for Linux and macOS in March 2019 by Feral Interactive.

Dirt 5	Dirt 5 is a simcade racing video game developed and published by Codemasters. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on 6 November 2020, for Xbox Series X/S on 10 November, and for PlayStation 5 on 12 November (for North America, Oceania, Japan, and South Korea) and 19 November (for most other regions), for Stadia on 24 March 2021, and for Luna on 15 July 2021. It was the last video game released by Codemasters as a publisher before acquired by Electronic Arts (EA) on 18 February 2021.

Dirt Rally	Dirt Rally (stylised as DiRT Rally) is a racing simulation video game developed and published by Codemasters for Windows. A Steam Early Access version of the game was released on 27 April 2015, and the full version was released on 7 December. PlayStation 4, Xbox One and physical PC DVD versions were released on 5 April 2016. The Linux and macOS versions, developed by Feral Interactive, were released in 2017. A sequel, Dirt Rally 2.0, was released in February 2019.

Dirt Rally 2.0	Dirt Rally 2.0 (stylised as DiRT Rally 2.0) is a racing simulation video game developed and published by Codemasters for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. It was released on 26 February 2019. A version for Amazon Luna followed on 3 June 2021. It is a successor to the 2015 video game Dirt Rally and emphasises realistic driving physics.

Disaster Report 4 Plus: Summer Memories	Disaster Report 4 Plus: Summer Memories is an action-adventure video game developed and published by Granzella for the PlayStation 4. Originally released in 2018 in Japan, it is the fourth entry in the Disaster Report series. It was originally meant to be released for the PlayStation 3 by Irem, but was cancelled in 2011 due to the 2011 Thoku earthquake and tsunami; development resumed in 2014 for the PlayStation 4 after Granzella acquired the intellectual property of the franchise from Irem.  A Nintendo Switch version was released in September 2019 in Japan. A Windows port was released in April 2020, with all platforms also receiving an international release by NIS America on the same day.

Disc Jam	The game combines elements of air hockey and tennis in a manner similar to the game Windjammers. However, while Windjammers is played from an overhead top-down perspective from the sidelines, Disc Jam is played from a behind the character, third-person perspective. The game feature 1 vs 1, and 2 vs 2 matches, allowing for up to four player multiplayer, either locally or online.

Disco Elysium: The Final Cut	Disco Elysium is a 2019 role-playing video game developed and published by ZA/UM. Inspired by Infinity Engine-era games, particularly Planescape: Torment, the game was written and designed by a team led by Estonian novelist Robert Kurvitz and features an art style based on oil painting with music by the English band Sea Power.

Disgaea 1 Complete	Disgaea: Hour of Darkness is a tactical role-playing video game developed and published by Nippon Ichi Software for the Sony PlayStation 2 video game console. Set in a world full of demons and angels, the story follows Laharl, the son of a demon overlord, who upon being awakened after a two-year slumber, aspires to succeed his fathers place while also fighting rival demons in the process. 

Disgaea 4 Complete+	Combat is carried out in a turn-based strategy fashion. Allies can be deployed into combat, each with their own special skills and "Evilities", additional abilities that are applied to every character. Enemies and allies may be picked up and thrown, just like previous Disgaea games. However, Disgaea 4 adds a new feature to its grabbing system, allowing any friendly character on the field to pick up another adjacent friendly character, and continuously pick up allies, in a tower fashion. When in the tower formation, the movement ranges of the stacked characters increase. The bottom character of the tower can also throw the tower ahead of him/her to further increase movement distance. Special abilities may be activated while in tower formation, such as specific team attacks and the ability to obtain items normally unreachable due to a wall.

Disgaea 5 Complete	The central story of the game is centered on the idea of "revenge" and takes a darker and more serious direction compared to the previous titles in the series. The demon emperor Void Dark devastates numerous Netherworlds after coming to power, with the help of an army of over one million soldiers known as The Lost. Following this, the Overlords of the Netherworlds under Void Dark's rule attempt to rise up and take revenge.

Disgaea 6: Defiance of Destiny	Disgaea 6: Defiance of Destiny is a tactical role-playing video game developed and published by Nippon Ichi Software as part of the Disgaea series. It was released for Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 on January 28, 2021, in Japan, and by Sega on May 27, 2021, in Asia. NIS America released the Nintendo Switch version worldwide on June 29, 2021. In total, the game was translated into French, English, Traditional Chinese and Korean. A version with all previous downloadable content, titled Disgaea 6 Complete, was released for PlayStation 5 on June 16, 2022, in Japan, followed by a worldwide release on June 28, 2022, alongside PlayStation 4 and Microsoft Windows platforms.

Disgaea 7: Vows of the Virtueless	Like its predecessor, Disgaea 7 is a tactical role-playing video game. The game follows Fuji, a demon warrior, and his companion Pirilika as they embark on an adventure in a netherworld named Hinomoto. New mechanics, such as "Jumbability" which increases the size of the player character, are introduced. The game also features a competitive multiplayer mode, a first for the franchise.

Dishonored: Definitive Edition	Dishonored is a 2012 action-adventure game developed by Arkane Studios and published by Bethesda Softworks. Set in the fictional, plague-ridden industrial city of Dunwall, Dishonored follows the story of Corvo Attano, bodyguard to the Empress of the Isles. He is framed for her murder and forced to become an assassin, seeking revenge on those who conspired against him. Corvo is aided in his quest by the Loyalistsa resistance group fighting to reclaim Dunwall, and the Outsidera powerful being who imbues Corvo with magical abilities. Several noted actors, including Susan Sarandon, Brad Dourif, Carrie Fisher, Michael Madsen, John Slattery, Lena Headey and Chlo Grace Moretz, provided voice work for the game.

Dishonored 2	Dishonored 2 is a 2016 action-adventure game developed by Arkane Lyon and published by Bethesda Softworks for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. It is the sequel to 2012's Dishonored. After Empress Emily Kaldwin is deposed by the witch Delilah Copperspoon, the player may choose between playing as either Emily or her Royal Protector and father Corvo Attano as they attempt to reclaim the throne. Emily and Corvo employ their own array of supernatural abilities, though the player can alternatively decide to forfeit these abilities altogether. Due to the game's nonlinear gameplay, there are a multitude of ways to complete missions, from non-lethal stealth to purposeful violent conflict.

Dishonored: Death of the Outsider	Dishonored: Death of the Outsider is a 2017 action-adventure game developed by Arkane Lyon and published by Bethesda Softworks. It is a standalone expansion pack following Dishonored 2, and was released 15 September 2017 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. The game takes place in the coastal city of Karnaca after the events of the previous title. It follows the former assassin Billie Lurk (voiced by Rosario Dawson) as she reunites with her mentor Daud (Michael Madsen) to kill the mysterious entity known as The Outsider (Robin Lord Taylor). The game is played from a first-person perspective and the player has access to a variety of supernatural abilities to complete missions in a multitude of ways, from stealth to purposeful violent conflict.

Disintegration	The game was played from a first-person perspective. The player assumes control of Romer Shoal, a Gravcycle pilot. The Gravcycle could hover above the ground and from this position, Romer could issue commands to his four-person squad and activate their abilities while providing aerial support. The Gravcycle in the game has three distinct models, with each granting players different advantages. For instance, Heavy can launch strong attacks but it moves at a slower pace. Romer can use his Gravcycle to highlight different areas of interest and resources, which can be salvaged to upgrade the Gravcycle, the ground units, and his own upgrade chip.

The Disney Afternoon Collection	All six games in the collection are primarily side-scrolling platform games. The games retain their original style and gameplay, but the compilation also includes the ability to rewind game time to correct mistakes, and time attack and boss rush modes, in which players are able to compete in online leaderboards. Additionally, the compilation includes concept art, music, and additional assets created for the original games.

Disney Classic Games: Aladdin and The Lion King	The game is one of the best-selling Genesis games with four million copies sold. It also received a number of adapted ports for other platforms, such as the NES, Game Boy, Game Boy Color, Amiga, and DOS computers.

Disney Infinity: Marvel Super Heroes	Featuring original story material by Brian Michael Bendis, Marvel Super Heroes includes three plots and includes characters from both Marvel and Disney properties. The main campaign is divided into three stories. The first storyline follows the Avengers as they prevent the Norse God Loki from rebuilding the Casket of Ancient Winters. The second storyline centers on Spider-Man and features him, Nova, Iron Fist, and Nick Fury teaming with Venom and being tasked with the objective to stop Green Goblin and Mysterio's symbiote invasion. The third and final storyline concentrates around the Guardians of the Galaxy, in a plot heavily inspired by the movie with the same name, where the Guardians must protect Knowhere from Ronan the Accuser.

Disney Infinity 3.0	Disney Infinity 3.0 features similar gameplay mechanics to Disney Infinity and Disney Infinity 2.0. Although sharing many key elements, the game's combat system has been redesigned to become more in-depth and complex. The game's combat system is influenced by the Star Wars: The Force Unleashed and its sequel, Kingdom Hearts and most of the Spider-Man's aerial combat-themed video game series (except Ultimate Spider-Man). Lightsabers have been integrated into combat, due to the inclusion of Star Wars characters. Characters who use lightsabers in combat can utilize additional weapons. For instance, playable character Luke Skywalker has the ability to use a blaster and a lightsaber, which used together can juggle enemies in the air. Full combos have been integrated, which allows the player to pause mid-combo and branch off into another variation of the combo. Playable characters with the ability to use the Force, in Star Wars mythology, have the ability to push and pull enemies during combat. Special attacks, which were introduced in Disney Infinity: Marvel Super Heroes, have returned. Only the bearer of a close-ranged weapon (such as lightsabers and other blade or staff weapons), including the characters who have their own primary close-ranged weapons (like Mulan, whose primary weapon is a staff,  similar to the Jedi and Sith's own primary lightsaber), and characters who can fly are able to perform an aerial combo. Instead of waiting for a progress bar to fill up for a special attack to be performed, a new feature allows the attack to be released early, but the effects of the attack are not as strong. Auto-lock when firing ranged weapons at targets has been enhanced, so players no longer have to move closer to enemies in order to auto-lock on their positions.

Dissidia Final Fantasy NT	Dissidia Final Fantasy NT is a fighting game with action role-playing elements developed by Koei Tecmo's Team Ninja and published by Square Enix for PlayStation 4 and Windows.

Divekick	The name "Divekick" is a reference to a common mechanic in many fighting games in which some characters can jump in the air and do a diving kick with a sudden increase in momentum. In fighting games, dive kicks are usually very powerful, abusable tactics. The gameplay in Divekick revolves entirely around this mechanic. Various aspects of the game, such as its character roster, also serve to satirize other fighting games and fighting game community culture. The game was released for PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, and Microsoft Windows via Steam Greenlight on August 20, 2013 in English-speaking regions. The game was released in Japan on September 17, 2014.

Divinity: Original Sin	Divinity: Original Sin is a role-playing video game developed and published by Larian Studios. The fourth main entry in the Divinity game series, it is a prequel to the original game Divine Divinity, and to the other main games in the series. It was first released on Microsoft Windows on 30 June 2014.

Divinity: Original Sin II	Divinity: Original Sin II is a role-playing video game developed and published by Larian Studios. The sequel to 2014's Divinity: Original Sin and the fifth main entry in the Divinity series, the game was released for Microsoft Windows in September 2017. The player controls a "Godwoken" (or a group of Godwoken), a Sourcerer who can harness and use a powerful magic known as Source, and becomes a pivotal figure in the fight against the Voidwoken, monstrous creatures who wreak havoc in the medieval fantasy world of Rivellon.

DJMax Respect	A PC  port version called DJMax Respect V (styled as, DJMAX RESPECT/V) launched on December 19, 2019, through Steam Early Access, and was fully released on March 12, 2020. An Xbox version of V launched on July 7, 2022. Available across console version, Xbox Live Windows 10 version, and Xbox Cloud Gaming services. This also marks the first DJMax game to be released on an Xbox console.

DmC: Devil May Cry Definitive Edition	DmC: Devil May Cry is a 2013 action-adventure game developed by Ninja Theory and published by Capcom. Released in January for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Windows, it is a reboot of the Devil May Cry series and set in a parallel universe to the mainline series.

DNF Duel	DNF Duel is a fighting video game co-developed by Arc System Works, Eighting and Neople, and published by Nexon. It is a spin-off of the Dungeon & Fighter series and was released for the Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation 5 on 28 June 2022. A Nintendo Switch port was released on 20 April 2023.

Doki Doki Literature Club Plus!	Doki Doki Literature Club! (sometimes shortened to DDLC) is a 2017 freeware visual novel developed by American independent game studio Team Salvato for Linux, macOS, and Windows. The story follows a student who reluctantly joins his high school's literature club at the insistence of his friend Sayori, and is given the option to romantically pursue her, Yuri, or Natsuki. Club president Monika also features heavily in the game's plot. The game features a non-traditional plot structure with multiple endings and unlockable cutscenes with each of the main characters. Although it initially appears to be a light-hearted dating simulator, it is actually a metafictional psychological horror game that extensively breaks the fourth wall.

Doki-Doki Universe	The only other inhabitant of Home besides QT3 and Balloon is Dr. Therapist, a therapist that gives psych  evaluations of the player controlling QT3. Evaluations are based on answers given when a player visits asteroids. On asteroids small abstract tests of four or five questions are given with multiple choice answers. They range from "Choose a caption" to "Without thinking pick a picture". The more asteroids the player visits the more thorough an evaluation Dr. Therapist will make.

Do Not Feed the Monkeys	Do Not Feed the Monkeys casts the player as a spy who monitors multiple live video feeds via an in-game desktop computer. The player gathers information about people and objects caught on these feeds, while managing life simulation elements such as the player character's health and apartment rent. Although the player is told not to interact with the people under surveillance, it is possible to do so, which provides bonuses but endangers the player character.

Don Bradman Cricket 17	Don Bradman Cricket 17 (DBC 17) is a cricket video game developed by Big Ant Studios. It is the sequel to Don Bradman Cricket 14 and was released on 16 December 2016 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and on 16 January 2017 for Microsoft Windows. It was officially announced on 28 May 2016, by Big Ant Studios.

Don't Die, Mr. Robot!	The main character, Mr. Robot, likes to eat fruit, but when he eats it, it explodes. One day, robotic drones take over the electro-abyss, so Mr. Robot eats fruits to eliminate the enemies with the explosions.

Don't Starve	Don't Starve is a survival game developed by Klei Entertainment. The game was initially released for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux on April 23, 2013. A PlayStation 4 port, renamed Don't Starve: Giant Edition, became available the following year (with PlayStation Vita and PlayStation 3 versions released in September 2014 and June 2015 respectively, and an Xbox One version released in August 2015). Don't Starve for iOS, renamed Don't Starve: Pocket Edition was released on July 9, 2015. An Android version was released on October 20, 2016. Downloadable content titled Reign of Giants was released on April 30, 2014, and a multiplayer standalone expansion called Don't Starve Together became free for existing users on June 3, 2015. On Steam, this game is able to be purchased with a free copy for a friend. A Nintendo Switch port came out on April 12, 2018.

Don't Starve Together	Don't Starve is a survival game developed by Klei Entertainment. The game was initially released for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux on April 23, 2013. A PlayStation 4 port, renamed Don't Starve: Giant Edition, became available the following year (with PlayStation Vita and PlayStation 3 versions released in September 2014 and June 2015 respectively, and an Xbox One version released in August 2015). Don't Starve for iOS, renamed Don't Starve: Pocket Edition was released on July 9, 2015. An Android version was released on October 20, 2016. Downloadable content titled Reign of Giants was released on April 30, 2014, and a multiplayer standalone expansion called Don't Starve Together became free for existing users on June 3, 2015. On Steam, this game is able to be purchased with a free copy for a friend. A Nintendo Switch port came out on April 12, 2018.

Donut County	Donut County is a puzzle video game developed by American designer Ben Esposito and published by Annapurna Interactive in 2018. The player moves a hole to swallow objects, which makes the hole increase in size. The concept originated in a game jam based on pitches from a Twitter account parody of game designer Peter Molyneux, and later added a mechanic similar to that of Katamari Damacy. Other inspirations for the game included Hopi figurinesa theme Esposito later relinquishedand locations from Bruce Springsteen songs. Donut County was released in August 2018 for iOS, macOS, PlayStation 4, and Microsoft Windows platforms while versions for Xbox One and Nintendo Switch were released in December 2018. It also released for Android in December 2020.

Doodle Devil	Doodle God is a puzzle video game developed by JoyBits and originally released for iOS and Adobe Flash. It released around the same time as another similar browser game Little Alchemy, both of which share gameplay inspired by a DOS game Alchemy from 1997.

Doodle God	Doodle God is a puzzle video game developed by JoyBits and originally released for iOS and Adobe Flash. It released around the same time as another similar browser game Little Alchemy, both of which share gameplay inspired by a DOS game Alchemy from 1997.

Doom	Doom is a 2016 first-person shooter video game developed by id Software and published by Bethesda Softworks. The game is the first major installment in the Doom series since 2004's Doom 3 and was a reboot of the franchise. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in May 2016. A port for Nintendo Switch was co-developed with Panic Button and released in November 2017, and a version for Google Stadia was released in August 2020. Players take the role of an unnamed space marine, known as the "Doom Slayer", as he battles demonic forces within an energy-mining facility on Mars and in Hell.

Doom II	Compared to its predecessor, Doom II features larger levels, new enemies, a new Super Shotgun weapon, and a new power-up. Master Levels for Doom II, an expansion pack with 21 new levels, was released on December 26, 1995. Another expansion, No Rest for the Living, which adds nine extra levels, was developed for the release of the game on Xbox Live Arcade and is also included in the Doom 3: BFG Edition, as part of Doom Classic Complete, and as a free add-on for the 2019 Unity engine port of Doom II.

Doom 3	Doom 3 is a 2004 survival horror first-person shooter video game developed by id Software and published by Activision. Doom 3 was originally released for Microsoft Windows on August 3, 2004, adapted for Linux later that year, and ported by Aspyr Media for Mac OS X in 2005. Developer Vicarious Visions ported the game to the Xbox, releasing it worldwide on April 4, 2005.

Doom 64	Doom 64 is a first-person shooter game by Midway. It was first released for the Nintendo 64 in 1997, as the second spin-off game in the Doom series after Final Doom (1996), and the fourth game in the series overall. A remastered port was developed by Nightdive Studios and published by Bethesda Softworks for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in March 2020, and for Stadia in May 2020.

Doom Eternal	Doom Eternal is a first-person shooter game developed by id Software and published by Bethesda Softworks. The sequel to Doom (2016), and the seventh game in the Doom series, it was released for PlayStation 4, Stadia, Windows, and Xbox One on March 20, 2020, with a port for Nintendo Switch released on December 8, 2020, and versions for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S released on June 29, 2021. 

Door Kickers: Action Squad	A spinoff action side-scroller, Door Kickers: Action Squad, was released in 2017. A direct sequel with more faithful gameplay, Door Kickers 2: Task Force North, was released in 2020.

Doraemon Story of Seasons	The game was released on June 13, 2019 in Japan, and worldwide on October 11, 2019. The PlayStation 4 version of the game was released on July 30, 2020 in Japan, and worldwide on September 4, 2020. A sequel, Doraemon Story of Seasons: Friends of the Great Kingdom, was released worldwide for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, and Windows on November 2, 2022.

Downwell	Downwell is a 2015 vertically scrolling shooter video game with roguelike elements. It was developed by Ojiro Fumoto and published by Devolver Digital for iOS and Microsoft Windows in October 2015, for Android in January 2016, and for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita in May 2016. A Nintendo Switch version was released in January 2019. British studio Red Phantom Games developed the Switch and PlayStation ports.

Dragon Age: Inquisition	Dragon Age: Inquisition is a 2014 action role-playing video game developed by BioWare and published by Electronic Arts. The third major game in the Dragon Age franchise, Inquisition is the sequel to Dragon Age II (2011). The story follows a player character known as the Inquisitor on a journey to settle the civil unrest in the continent of Thedas and close a mysterious tear in the sky called the "Breach", which is unleashing dangerous demons upon the world. Dragon Age: Inquisition's gameplay is similar to its predecessors, although it consists of several semi-open worlds for players to explore. Players control the Inquisitor or their companions mainly from a third-person perspective, although a traditional role-playing game top-down camera angle is also available.

Dragon Ball FighterZ	Dragon Ball FighterZ (pronounced "fighters") is a 2.5D fighting game developed by Arc System Works and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. Based on the Dragon Ball franchise, it was released for the PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, in most regions in January 2018, and in Japan the following month, and was released worldwide for the Nintendo Switch in September 2018. Versions for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S were released in February 2024 alongside an update adding rollback netcode for these versions and Windows.

Dragon Ball Xenoverse	A sequel, Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2 was released in 2016.

Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2	Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2 (Japanese: 2, Hepburn: Doragon Bru Zenobsu Ts) is an action role-playing fighting game developed by Dimps and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment based on the Dragon Ball franchise, and is the sequel to the 2015 game Dragon Ball Xenoverse. It was released on October 25, 2016, for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and on October 27 for Windows. In Japan, Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2 was initially only available on PlayStation 4. The game was released for the Nintendo Switch in Japan on September 7, 2017, and later released worldwide on September 22, 2017. The game was released on Stadia on December 17, 2019.

Dragon Ball Z: Kakarot	Dragon Ball Z: Kakarot (Z , Doragon Bru Zetto Kakarotto) is an action role-playing game developed by CyberConnect2 and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment, based on the Dragon Ball franchise. It was released for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Windows in January 2020, Nintendo Switch in September 2021, Stadia in October 2021, PlayStation 5 in January 2023, and Xbox Series X/S in February 2023. The game follows the main protagonist Goku and the Z-Fighters throughout the events of the Dragon Ball Z anime, including anime-original storylines and moments.

Dragon Blaze	Dragon Blaze plays like many typical 2D vertically scrolling shooters by Psikyo, although this game is closer to the bullet hell genre than most of the company's other output and the color of the enemies' bullets has been changed from Psikyo's trademark orange to a neon purple. The game gives each character (Quaid, Sonia, Ian, Rob) the standard normal shot, charged shot, and magic bomb, but each character also rides a dragon, which can be dismounted and be used as a weapon itself. The dismounted dragon initially acts as a piercing weapon, and then remains stationary shooting until the player calls it back using the same button. It can also be used to collect items.

Dragon Fantasy: The Black Tome of Ice	Dragon Fantasy is a retro-style role-playing video game developed by The Muteki Corporation. It was originally created for iOS, but was subsequently released for Mac, Microsoft Windows, and Android phones. On April 9, 2012, Sony Computer Entertainment of America announced on their blog that an enhanced "16-bit" version of the game would be launching on PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita. The game was originally created as an homage to series designer Adam Rippon's late father, sculptor and professor Thomas Rippon, who died in December 2010.

Dragon Fin Soup	Dragon Fin Soup is a role-playing game with roguelike qualities and graphics inspired by the Super NES, playing from a top-down, 2-dimensional perspective. Tactical combat and movement take place in turns, with both the player and enemies taking actions during each turn. The game includes scripted events and procedurally generated content. Two modes of play are available: Story mode has the player controlling the first playable character, Red Robin, as she works her way through a pre-scripted storyline in the vein of a typical role-playing game. Survival mode features permadeath gameplay, and starts players out in a forest where they must find supplies and fight through increasingly difficult randomly generated dungeons. The speed of gameplay matches the speed of the player; if the player moves quickly through the game world, then so do the enemies.

Dragon's Crown Pro	Dragon's Crown is a 2013 action role-playing game developed by Vanillaware for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita. It was published in Japan and North America by Atlus and in PAL regions by NIS America. A high-definition port for PlayStation 4, Dragon's Crown Pro, was released by Atlus in 2018. Players navigate environments from a side-scrolling perspective, choosing from six character classes to fight in the style of a beat 'em up and acquiring loot through repeated dungeon exploration. The storyline follows adventurers as they journey across Hydeland and become involved in the search for the magical Dragon's Crown.

Dragon Quest Builders	Dragon Quest Builders is a 2016 sandbox action role-playing game developed and published by Square Enix for the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Android iOS, and Microsoft Windows and published by Nintendo for Nintendo Switch.

Dragon Quest Builders 2	Dragon Quest Builders 2 is an action role-playing sandbox game as opposed to the Dragon Quest series' typical turn-based style. The games hack-and-slash combat system features two moves; A standard attack, and a "Spinning Slice". The game features the ability for players to find materials and use them to construct buildings and other equipment. New features not found in the previous game include a fast-travel function based on a retro-style map, an optional first-person perspective, underwater exploration, and gliding.

Dragon Quest Heroes	Dragon Quest Heroes mixes the hack-and-slash combat of Koei Tecmo's Dynasty Warriors series of video games with the characters, monsters, universe, and lore from Square Enix's Dragon Quest series. The game is much more heavy on RPG elements than most of Omega Force's other titles. The game has a roster of 13 characters that the player can choose from, each having unique weapons and abilities, some of these characters are fan favourite Dragon Quest characters but many other characters show up as NPCs.

Dragon Quest Heroes II	Dragon Quest Heroes II mixes the hack-and-slash combat of Koei Tecmo's Dynasty Warriors series of video games with the characters, monsters, universe, and lore from Square Enix's Dragon Quest series. The game is heavier on the RPG elements than most of Omega Force's other titles. World exploration was changed to resemble the typical Dragon Quest experience. Players can move their party to visit towns, wander the world map and initiate battle stages (similar to dungeons). Seamless random monster encounters may break up the pace between locations. Special ingredients and treasure boxes can be discovered across the world map. Weather can fluctuate and sometimes affect the party's status.

Dragon Quest X	Dragon Quest X is set in the world of Astoltia, with the player character being initially human before an attack by Nelgel the Netherlord which he forces their soul into the body of another race. Following this, they must gather magical gems to seal Nelgel once again, while the player character's sibling is sent back in time to be safe from Nelgel. Gameplay follows a combination of elements from the Dragon Quest and other contemporary MMORPGs, such as real-time combat in an open world environment and a job system tied to skills and abilities.

Dragon Quest X Offline	Dragon Quest X is set in the world of Astoltia, with the player character being initially human before an attack by Nelgel the Netherlord which he forces their soul into the body of another race. Following this, they must gather magical gems to seal Nelgel once again, while the player character's sibling is sent back in time to be safe from Nelgel. Gameplay follows a combination of elements from the Dragon Quest and other contemporary MMORPGs, such as real-time combat in an open world environment and a job system tied to skills and abilities.

Dragon Quest XI	Dragon Quest XI: Echoes of an Elusive Age is a role-playing video game by Square Enix. The eleventh entry in the long-running Dragon Quest video game series, it was released in Japan for the Nintendo 3DS and PlayStation 4 in July 2017 and worldwide for the PlayStation 4 and Windows in September 2018. An enhanced version, Dragon Quest XI S: Echoes of an Elusive Age - Definitive Edition, was released for Nintendo Switch by Nintendo in September 2019; for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in December 2020; and for Stadia in March 2021.

Dragon Quest XI S: Echoes of an Elusive Age - Definitive Edition	Dragon Quest XI: Echoes of an Elusive Age is a role-playing video game by Square Enix. The eleventh entry in the long-running Dragon Quest video game series, it was released in Japan for the Nintendo 3DS and PlayStation 4 in July 2017 and worldwide for the PlayStation 4 and Windows in September 2018. An enhanced version, Dragon Quest XI S: Echoes of an Elusive Age - Definitive Edition, was released for Nintendo Switch by Nintendo in September 2019; for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in December 2020; and for Stadia in March 2021.

Dragon's Dogma: Dark Arisen	The gameplay focuses on the Arisena customizable avatarexploring Gransys completing quests and fighting monsters in real-time combat. The protagonist is accompanied by Pawns, characters who provide combat support and advice; the protagonist has one customized Pawn, and two additional Pawns either pre-set within the game or other customized Pawns shared by other players through an online lobby. Both standard combat and boss battles involve grappling with or climbing on enemies.

Dragon Star Varnir	Dragon Star Varnir received "generally favorable reviews" according to review aggregator Metacritic. Matt Sainsbury of Digitally Downloaded rated the game 90/100, saying the game "ratchets things up" from the developer's "budget, fanservicey JRPGs" with a "rich bit of storytelling", and saying that "battles  never become rote". Zach Wilkerson of RPGFan rated it 79/100, calling the battle system where the game "truly shines", though criticizing the story as "never reach the potential of its engaging premise", and saying that "too much happens at the beginning", with every major character introduced in the first half hour, hurting their character development. Brian Santana of IGN Spain rated it 65/100, criticizing the plot as simplistic with "flat characters", but praising the battle system and its tactical components.

Draugen	Draugen is a 2019 first-person mystery adventure video game developed by Red Thread Games for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. Set in the 1920s, the plot entails an American naturalist visiting a Norwegian fishing village to find that the town's population has vanished. The player must explore the town, discover its fate and survive the night. The game emphasizes the more sinister aspects of Norwegian folklore.

Drawful 2	Jackbox Games, Inc. (formerly Jellyvision Games, Inc.) is an American video game developer based in Chicago, Illinois, best known for the You Don't Know Jack series of quiz-based party video games and The Jackbox Party Pack series. Founded by Harry Gottlieb, the company operated as Jellyvision Games from 1995 until its closure in 2001. After seven years of dormancy, Jellyvision Games was revived in 2008, and the company rebranded as Jackbox Games in 2013.

Drawn to Death	Sony announced that the game's servers would be closing on March 25, 2019, rendering the game unplayable.

Dreamfall Chapters: The Longest Journey	Dreamfall Chapters is an episodic 3D adventure game with emphasis on character interaction, exploration of the game world, and puzzle solving. It is a sequel to the adventure games The Longest Journey and Dreamfall: The Longest Journey. The game was released for PC in five episodes between 21 October 2014 and 17 June 2016. The updated "Final Cut" version was released on physical media for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on 5 May 2017, and the Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux versions on 21 July 2017.

Dreams	Dreams is a game creation system video game developed by Media Molecule and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4 in February 2020. Players can create and play user-generated content in the forms of games, audiovisual experiences and game assets, which can be shared or remixed to be used in other players' creations.

Driveclub	Driveclub is a racing video game developed by Evolution Studios and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for PlayStation 4. It was announced during the PlayStation 4 press conference on 20 February 2013, and, after several delays, was released worldwide in October 2014.

Driveclub Bikes	Driveclub is a racing video game developed by Evolution Studios and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for PlayStation 4. It was announced during the PlayStation 4 press conference on 20 February 2013, and, after several delays, was released worldwide in October 2014.

Duck Game	Duck Game is a 2D action game developed by Landon Podbielski and published by Adult Swim Games. The game was released for the Ouya in 2014, and for Microsoft Windows in 2015. A PlayStation 4 version was released in August 2017, and a Nintendo Switch version was released in May 2019. A major update was released in November 2020 on PC, with an upcoming release on the Switch.

Duke Nukem 3D: 20th Anniversary World Tour	Duke Nukem 3D is a first-person shooter video game developed by 3D Realms. It is a sequel to the platform games Duke Nukem and Duke Nukem II, published by 3D Realms.

Dungeons 2	Dungeons 2 is a more direct homage to Dungeon Keeper than its predecessor. The player still takes on the role of the Ultimate Evil, but now as a disembodied spirit after his defeat by heroes of the Overworld. The player must rely on controlling minions with the Hand of Terror. Named minions are hired, and can be leveled up and trained to be more powerful. The player must meet the needs of the minions in order to keep them happy, or they may disobey commands.

Dungeons 3	Dungeons 3 is a video game developed by Realmforge Studios and published by Kalypso Media. It was released on October 13, 2017, for Linux, macOS, Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and for Nintendo Switch on September 15, 2022. It is the sequel to the 2015 video game Dungeons 2 and the third installment of the Dungeons series.

Dungeon Defenders: Awakened	Dungeon Defenders is a mix of tower defense, role-playing, and action-adventure where one to four (sometimes up to six) players work together to protect one or more Eternia Crystals from being destroyed by waves of enemies which include goblins, orcs, kobolds, ogres and other creatures. The game features a number of levels, consisting of around five total waves, through its campaign mode, or other levels as part of challenges; some of these levels may feature a final wave that includes a boss battle against a unique foe. The player characters, known as "heroes," defend crystals by either magically creating, maintaining, and upgrading towers or other defensive elements that damage or divert the enemy monsters, or by using melee and ranged attacks to defeat enemies directly. On easier difficulties, players have an indefinite amount of time prior to a wave to study the level's map to see where monsters will come from and the type or number of monsters, to place traps and defenses, and to manage the characters' equipment. Traps and defenses are limited by the available mana that the character has - more mana can be obtained by defeating monsters or opening chests that appear between waves - as well as a total "defense units" for the level, limiting the number of traps that can be placed. The characters can be damaged by enemy attacks, and can be killed in battle but will respawn after a few seconds, unless hardcore mode is selected. If an Eternia Crystal has taken too much damage, it will be destroyed and the players will lose that level. Successfully defending a wave will earn the characters experience points based on the difficulty plus additional bonuses, namely preventing any damage to the crystals; preventing damage to your character; and only using weapons, pets, and/or character abilities to kill monsters. Successfully completing all waves of a level will earn the players a large banked mana boost. Monsters will also drop items that can be sold for additional banked mana.

Dungeon of the Endless	In the game, the player takes the role of the survivors of a prison spaceship, its escape pod having crashed to the surface of a strange planet. To escape, they must take an energy crystal through several floors, each floor filled with a number of dangerous creatures. To help, the player can have their survivors explore the randomly generated levels to collect resources as to enable power to various rooms and construct turrets to fend off the enemies when they move the crystal from its starting point to the elevator to the next floor.

Dungeon Village	Dungeon Village places the player in control of a village in a stereotypical RPG setting. The main goal of the game is to attract heroes to your town and direct them to fight monsters outside of the city's limits. In order to attract heroes, the player must have the city hold events which attract outside attention and fame, and must improve their city by building new buildings. As monsters arrive, the player can direct heroes to perform quests and give them gifts so they become more favorable to the city.

Dust: An Elysian Tail	Dust takes place in a world populated by anthropomorphic animals, where the main character, Dust, comes upon a sentient sword, the Blade of Ahrah, and its guardian Fidget. Without memories of his past, Dust follows Fidget's advice and aids the population of the world against forces led by General Gaius. The game is an action-adventure game with Metroidvania-style exploration, requiring the player to gain power-ups to allow Dust to reach new areas. Combat is based on brawler-like mechanics, where Dust can use a combination of swordplay and magic from Fidget to defeat enemies. Dodrill compiled nearly all of the game's programming and assets himself, relying only on external help for voice acting, narrative, and the game's soundtrack.

The Dwarves	A beta version of the game was released on June 3, 2016.

Dying Light	Dying Light is a 2015 survival horror video game developed by Techland and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. The game's story follows an undercover agent named Kyle Crane who is sent to infiltrate a quarantine zone in a fictional Middle Eastern city called Harran. It features an enemy-infested, open-world city with a dynamic daynight cycle, in which zombies are slow and clumsy during daytime but become extremely aggressive at night. The gameplay is focused on weapons-based combat and parkour, allowing players to choose fight or flight when presented with dangers. The game also features an asymmetrical multiplayer mode (originally set to be a pre-order bonus), and a four-player co-operative multiplayer mode.

Dying Light 2: Stay Human	Dying Light 2 Stay Human is a 2022 action role-playing game developed and published by Techland. The game is a sequel to Dying Light, and was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on 4 February 2022. A Nintendo Switch cloud version is in development. It received generally favorable reviews, with praise directed at the combat, parkour system, and open world, but criticism for the story. It sold 5 million units in its first month of release.

Dynasty Warriors 8: Empires	The game was unveiled on October 30, 2012 via Jump Magazine and released on February 28, 2013 for the PlayStation 3 in Japan. On April 3, 2013, it was confirmed by Tecmo Koei that there would be an overseas release for both North America and Europe in July 2013. It was released on both PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 for both physical and digital release. The option of English and Japanese voice overs also return, where there is also an option to change the subtitles to English, French or German.

Dynasty Warriors 8: Xtreme Legends Complete Edition	The game was unveiled on October 30, 2012 via Jump Magazine and released on February 28, 2013 for the PlayStation 3 in Japan. On April 3, 2013, it was confirmed by Tecmo Koei that there would be an overseas release for both North America and Europe in July 2013. It was released on both PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 for both physical and digital release. The option of English and Japanese voice overs also return, where there is also an option to change the subtitles to English, French or German.

Dynasty Warriors 9	A strategy-focused expansion, titled Dynasty Warriors 9: Empires, was released in December 2021 in Japan, and worldwide in February 2022 for the PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Stadia, Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, and Microsoft Windows.

Dynasty Warriors 9: Empires	A strategy-focused expansion, titled Dynasty Warriors 9: Empires, was released in December 2021 in Japan, and worldwide in February 2022 for the PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Stadia, Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, and Microsoft Windows.

Dynasty Warriors: Godseekers	Dynasty Warriors: Godseekers, unlike the mainline Dynasty Warriors games, is a turn-based strategy game with no hack and slash combat. (Compare to the standalone Empires games, which are turn-based strategy games that use the traditional hack and slash combat to resolve conflict.)  Players control a team of up to five characters as they move across a grid, and attack enemy units in order to achieve some form of objective.  Most maps are based on maps found in Dynasty Warriors 8: Empires, with alterations to limit the size of the level and better fit the grid pattern.

Dynasty Warriors Online	Dynasty Warriors Online allows players to create their own character and choose a weapon from existing playable characters. Once a character is created, the player enters the world of Dynasty Warriors, defeating opposing armies for experience points. Players can also see other players that they can battle. It also poses the introduction of free roam, of which a player can move around their factions city talking to various non-player characters.

Earth Atlantis	In the game, the player controls a submarine as they explore the depths of a post-apocalyptic Earth. After the player chooses one of many underwater vehicles, they utilize their map in order to find their next objective and fight a variety of bosses along the way. The player can hop around while defeating smaller enemies in between.

Earth Defense Force 4.1	The player takes control of an EDF soldier from one of four soldier classes. To fight these alien forces the player can access several weapons in the game, ranging from assault rifles and sniper rifles to rocket launchers, grenades, and laser weapons. Only two weapons may be selected for each mission with the exception of the Fencer, who can have four weapons, and the Air Raider, which can have three. The game has more than seven hundred weapons; roughly 175 weapons per soldier class. This the highest weapon count of any EDF. Some levels also contain vehicles which can be operated. The game takes place across levels featuring destructible environments, taking place in settings such as cities, beaches, hills, tunnels and more. There is no penalty for collateral damage that is inflicted on the environment by the player, for instance when buildings crumble after sustaining a few hits from a rocket launcher or grenade. Other EDF soldiers can be recruited or followed, and attack enemies on sight, as well as provide radio chatter. You can also customize the color of your soldier.

Earth Defense Force 5	Earth Defense Force 5 follows the same gameplay style as the previous game, Earth Defense Force 4.1. Unlike 4.1 however, some missions now contain pre-placed vehicles, normally being civilian vehicles that the player can occupy.

Earth Defense Force 6	In 2013, radio waves from deep space are picked up by scientists, proving the existence of extraterrestrial life. The Earth Defense Force, a unified multinational military, is founded a few years later, in case the aliens prove to be hostile. In each of the games the player assumes the role of an EDF soldier during an alien invasion.

Earth Defense Force: Iron Rain	Like previous entries in the series, Earth Defense Force: Iron Rain is a third-person action shooting game, where the player takes control of an Earth Defense Force (EDF) soldier and battles an onslaught of alien enemies. The game features four soldier classes, the Trooper, Jet Lifter, Heavy Striker, and Prowl Rider, all of which feature the option to play as a male or female soldier. The game uses the same type of ammo system as other EDF games, with most weapons having no ammunition limit and only limited by reloading times. Enemies drop Energy Gems, which can be picked up to power the player's Energy Core. Energy Gems also serve as the in-game currency, which the player collects during missions and can subsequently use to purchase new weapons or apparel for the playable character. On some missions, the enemy Kindred Rebellion faction may enter the combat area to try to loot Energy Gems dropped by fallen Aggressors. While the Rebellion will attack Aggressors, it is also hostile toward the EDF.

Earth Defense Force: World Brothers	In 2013, radio waves from deep space are picked up by scientists, proving the existence of extraterrestrial life. The Earth Defense Force, a unified multinational military, is founded a few years later, in case the aliens prove to be hostile. In each of the games the player assumes the role of an EDF soldier during an alien invasion.

Earthfall	Earthfall is a four-player cooperative first-person shooter video game developed by American studio Holospark and published by Gearbox Publishing. It was released on July 13, 2018, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. The game was released on Nintendo Switch on October 29, 2019, in the west and on March 19, 2020, in Japan. In the game, players are part of a guerilla force fighting hordes of deadly alien invaders. The game has been called a clone of Left 4 Dead by critics. It received mixed to negative reviews, citing an overall lack of quality.

Earthlock: Festival of Magic	A sequel, titled Earthlock 2, was announced in July 2020.

EA Sports UFC	A free-to-play mobile version of the game was released for iOS and Android devices on April 21, 2015. A sequel, EA Sports UFC 2, was released in March 2016. The third installment, EA Sports UFC 3, was released on February 2, 2018, and a fourth title, EA Sports UFC 4, was released on August 14, 2020.

EA Sports UFC 2	Gameplay heavily resembles real UFC fights. The player can select from over 250 fighters and may customize various aspects of the fight, such as the rules. The fighter can perform an array of attacks, such as kicks, punches, grapples, submissions, and takedowns. The player can fight in a variety of game modes, including the career and ultimate team modes. The player can create customizable fighters and the game features both male and female fighters.

EA Sports UFC 3	EA Sports UFC 3 is a mixed martial arts fighting game, similar to previous installments, the game is based on Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), while also retaining realism with respect to physics, sounds and movements. The game has also been heavily endorsed by Conor McGregor, the cover athlete as well as one of the UFC's top stars. New to the series is the "G.O.A.T. (Greatest of All Time)" career mode, where the choices made throughout the career impact the player's path to greatness. Outside of fights, the player can make promotional choices to build hype, gain fans, earn more cash through big contracts and capture the world's attention. A new in-game social media system now allows the player to create heated rivalries with other UFC athletes, providing the freedom to take on any type of persona.

EA Sports UFC 4	Like its predecessor, UFC 4 is a fighting game based on the mixed martial arts promotion Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). There are 229 unique fighters, with 81 alternate versions. The game features a career mode, which was designed to be an "onboarding experience" to teach the player the basics of four MMA disciplines which include boxing, kickboxing, wrestling, and jiujitsu. The goal of the career mode, which allows players to create their own custom fighter, is to become the G.O.A.T. (which stands for "greatest of all time"). As players progress in the game, they can choose to accept or decline fights, which will affect the development of the fighter's career. The control scheme was also improved and streamlined to make the game more accessible. Multiplayer modes, including Blitz Battles, and Online World Championships, would also be available. In addition to fighting in The Octagon, players can also fight in Backyard and Kumite, which resembles an underground fighting arena. However, unlike its predecessor, Ultimate Team would not return in UFC 4.

Eastshade	Eastshade has no combat mechanics, as its gameplay involve completing quests given by various non-player characters and fulfilling various objectives. In most instances, quests in Eastshade involve doing good deeds, helping people see the error of their ways, and bringing communities together through the player character's artistry. The compositional mechanics for the player's paintings resemble the framing involved in taking a picture rather than painting one.

eBaseball Powerful Pro Yakyuu 2020	eBaseball Powerful Pro Baseball, previously known as Jikky Powerful Pro Yaky and marketed internationally as Power Pros, is a Japanese baseball video game series created by Konami. The game is known for its super deformed characters, and fast-paced but deep game play. Most games in the series are developed under license from the Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) and the Japan Professional Baseball Players Association (JPBPA), letting them use the league's team names, stadiums, colors, and players' names and likenesses. There are also six games in the series with the Major League Baseball (MLB) and Major League Baseball Players Association (MLBPA) license, two with the Korea Baseball Organization (KBO) and Korea Professional Baseball Players Association (KPBPA), and one with the World Baseball Classic license. It is long running in Japan, starting out in 1994 for the Super Famicom, and appearing on many different consoles: Saturn (19951997), PlayStation (19942003), Nintendo 64 (19972001), PlayStation 2 (20002009), Dreamcast (2000), GameCube (20022006), Wii (20072009), PlayStation 3 (20102016), PlayStation 4 (since 2016) as well as PlayStation Portable (20072013) and Vita (2012-2018).

Echo	Echo is a stealth video game released on 19 September 2017. It was developed and published by Danish indie studio Ultra Ultra. The game takes place in a planetwide palace that creates echoes of the player and teaches them the actions of the player. The game was not a financial success, and was the only game released by Ultra Ultra before it shut down.

Edna & Harvey: Harvey's New Eyes	The game is set in a 2D cartoon world. The player controls Lilli. Unlike most other adventure games, there are no clickable dialogues. After the player clicks on a character, a bar appears with some symbols indicating a subject. The game neither has a list with actions such as Walk, Look, Talk, Pick up, Use. If applicable, items are automatically added to the inventory when the user clicks on them. Furthermore, the user must combine objects in their inventory in order to create new ones (or to modify existing items). Objects in the inventory can be given to other characters or can be combined with items not in the inventory.

Edna & Harvey: The Breakout	The game began as a university project in Germany. Although that version received an outstanding reception, the English game merely received a mixed reception with both average and low review scores, mostly due to its sloppy translation.

eFootball Pro Evolution Soccer 2020	eFootball PES 2020 (eFootball Pro Evolution Soccer 2020) is a football simulation video game developed by PES Productions and published by Konami for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Android, and IOS. The game is the 19th installment in the eFootball Pro Evolution Soccer series and was launched worldwide on 10 September 2019 and in Japan on 12 September 2019.

eFootball PES 2021 Season Update	eFootball PES 2020 (eFootball Pro Evolution Soccer 2020) is a football simulation video game developed by PES Productions and published by Konami for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Android, and IOS. The game is the 19th installment in the eFootball Pro Evolution Soccer series and was launched worldwide on 10 September 2019 and in Japan on 12 September 2019.

Eitr	Devolver Digital, Inc. is an American video game publisher based in Austin, Texas, specializing in the publishing of indie games. The company was founded in June 2009 by Nigel Lowrie, Harry Miller, Graeme Struthers, Rick Stults, and Mike Wilson, five executives who had been involved with Gathering of Developers and Gamecock Media Group, which published games on developer-friendly terms, but due to the high cost associated with releasing retail games saw themselves acquired and dissolved by larger companies. To avoid this, Devolver Digital instead turned to digital distribution channels.

Eiyuden Chronicle: Hundred Heroes	The development of Eiyuden Chronicle: Hundred Heroes is led by Yoshitaka Murayama, the creator of the Suikoden video game series by Konami. Murayama had directed Suikoden and Suikoden II during his time at Konami, but left the company in 2002 shortly before the release of Suikoden III. 

Eiyuden Chronicle: Rising	The game was announced in June 2020 as a collaboration between multiple veteran Suikoden series developers, including series creator Yoshitaka Murayama, who served as the director of Rising. The game was developed as a stretch goal for Eiyuden Chronicle: Hundred Heroes on the crowdfunding platform Kickstarter. The project's main studio, Rabbit & Bear Studios, assisted Natsume Atari in the development of Rising.

Elden Ring	Elden Ring is a 2022 action role-playing game developed by FromSoftware. It was directed by Hidetaka Miyazaki with worldbuilding provided by fantasy writer George R. R. Martin. It was published for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on February 25 by FromSoftware in Japan and Bandai Namco Entertainment internationally. Players control a customizable player character who is on a quest to repair the Elden Ring and become the new Elden Lord.

The Elder Scrolls Online	The Elder Scrolls Online, abbreviated ESO, is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) developed by ZeniMax Online Studios and published by Bethesda Softworks. It was released for Windows and macOS in April 2014. It is a part of the Elder Scrolls series.

The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim  Special Edition	The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim is an action role-playing video game developed by Bethesda Game Studios and published by Bethesda Softworks. It is the fifth main installment in The Elder Scrolls series, following The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2006), and was released worldwide for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 on November 11, 2011.

Electronic Super Joy	The game is a humorous platformer following a human character as he navigates a music-drenched world seeking revenge for his stolen butt. The player is able to run, jump (sometimes fly, or double jump on levels), and "smash", an attack that causes the character to drop directly downwards. Obstacles include mazes, special surfaces that impede or otherwise affect the player's movement, moving levels that force the player to move quickly, and enemies, some of which shoot missiles. The player passes numerous checkpoints in game levels that they resume from if they die.

Electronic Super Joy 2	The game is a humorous platformer following a human character as he navigates a music-drenched world seeking revenge for his stolen butt. The player is able to run, jump (sometimes fly, or double jump on levels), and "smash", an attack that causes the character to drop directly downwards. Obstacles include mazes, special surfaces that impede or otherwise affect the player's movement, moving levels that force the player to move quickly, and enemies, some of which shoot missiles. The player passes numerous checkpoints in game levels that they resume from if they die.

ELEX	ELEX (Eclectic, Lavish, Exhilarating, Xenial) is a science fantasy-themed action role-playing video game developed by Piranha Bytes and published by THQ Nordic. It was released worldwide on 17 October 2017, for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Windows. The game has been described as an "edgy, dark, uncompromising, and complex" post-apocalyptic sci-fi role-playing game where the protagonist joins the war for the powerful resource, "ELEX", which gives people magic-like powers. The game world is a mix of futuristic and medieval locations, in which the player can use guns, swords and magic against enemies.

Elliot Quest	The demon Satar has placed a curse on Elliot, which will turn him into a demon as well if it is not lifted; Elliot sets out to search for a cure.

Elite: Dangerous	Elite Dangerous is an online space flight simulation game developed and published by Frontier Developments. The player commands a spaceship and explores a realistic 1:1 scale, open-world representation of the Milky Way galaxy, with the gameplay being open-ended. The game is the first in the series to attempt massively multiplayer gameplay, with players' actions affecting the narrative story of the game's persistent universe, while also retaining a single-player mode. Elite Dangerous is the fourth game in the Elite video game series. It is the sequel to Frontier: First Encounters, released in 1995.

Emily Wants to Play	The player takes the role of a pizza delivery man that has been trapped in a house by a young girl named Emily and her three dolls. Each level of the game is represented by a different hour of the night from 11 pm until 6 am. During these levels, various combinations of the dolls and Emily appear. The player must learn how to interact with Emily and her dolls in order to survive the night.

Empire of Sin	Empire of Sin is a real-time strategy game with the player taking the role of a crime boss in the Prohibition era starting in 1920, one year after the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment, and trying to gain control of Chicago by 1933 (when Prohibition is abolished).

Enchanted Portals	Enchanted Portals is a platform video game developed and published by Xixo Games Studio. It was released on September 5, 2023, for Microsoft Windows, September 8, 2023 for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S, and November 1 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch. The game drew comparisons to the 2017 platformer Cuphead, with whom it shares its gameplay and visual style, and received largely negative reviews.

Ender Lilies: Quietus of the Knights	The story follows Lily, the last surviving priestess in a land devastated by an endless and oppressive rain that drives living things demented and transforms them into undead while granting immortality. Awakening in a church with no recollection of recent events, Lily turns to exploring beyond the safety of the sanctuary to find the source of the rain. Along the way, Lily can summon the spirits of purified undead to protect her.

The End Is Nigh	The player controls Ash, a small blob. The game is divided into more than 600 single-screen, interconnected levels, forming over 15 chapters. The objective of the game is to clear the platforming challenges of each screen and proceed to the next, exploring the world and collecting items along the way. Collectable items include tumors, which unlock bonus levels and are used as lives in later chapters, and video game cartridges, which unlock retro levels.

Enter the Gungeon	Enter the Gungeon is a 2016 bullet hell roguelike game developed by Dodge Roll and published by Devolver Digital. Set in the firearms-themed Gungeon, gameplay follows four player characters called Gungeoneers as they traverse procedurally generated rooms to find a gun that can "kill the past". The Gungeoneers fight against bullet-shaped enemies, which are fought using both conventional and exotic weapons. Enter the Gungeon features a permadeath system, causing the Gungeoneers to lose all obtained items and start again from the first level upon death. Between playthroughs, players can travel to an area called the Breach, where they can converse with non-player characters and unlock new items randomly encountered while playing.

Entwined	The story is about two souls, a bird and a fish, that are in love but can't be together. Once united, the two souls will transform into a magnificent soaring dragon.

Epic Astro Story	Epic Astro Story has two main facets to its gameplay. The first is a city managing simulation, where the player is required to build up a colony and build its success. The second is a colony exploration component, which allows the player to look through caves, empty territory, and other planets for loot and land, and contains a battle system where the colony's explorers must fight aliens and monsters. As the teams of colonists leave to explore, their progress in different areas is tracked through a bar on the bottom of the screen, which allows the player to continue with other management issues while the explorers continue their work. All of the colonists have names that are a play on popular Star Trek characters.

Erica	The game is an interactive fiction psychological thriller, wherein the player makes choices at critical story junctures to steer which branch of the narrative will unfold. Erica can be played using a companion app on a smartphone using PlayLink (however, the PlayStation 5 is not backwards compatible with this feature), or using the touch pad on a PlayStation 4 Controller.

Escape Plan	In Escape Plan, the player controls two characters, Lil and Laarg, through a series of booby-trapped rooms using the PlayStation Vita's front and rear multitouch panels and motion controls. The gesture-based control system requires players to trace paths for the characters and tap obstacles to move them out of the way and clear a path for them. Traps range from a single brick lying on the floor to enormous rotating fan blades. Failure to guide Lil and Laarg to safety usually results in a gruesome death.

Escape Goat 2	Escape Goat is a puzzle-platform game developed and published by independent developer MagicalTimeBean, for the Xbox 360, Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux, and Nintendo Switch.

The Escapists	The Escapists is a strategy game played from a top-down perspective. The game was developed by Mouldy Toof Studios and following a Steam Early Access release in 2014, was released in 2015 for Microsoft Windows, macOS, Linux, Xbox 360, Xbox One and PlayStation 4. It was released on iOS and Android in 2017. A Nintendo Switch version of the game containing all downloadable content was released in 2018. The game was launched on the Epic Games Store on 23 September 2021, with the weekly free game campaign of Epic Games. Players assume the role of an inmate and must escape from prisons of increasing difficulty.

The Escapists 2	The Escapists 2 is a strategy role-playing video game developed by Mouldy Toof Studios  and published by Team17. It is the sequel to The Escapists (2015) and it was released worldwide for Linux, macOS, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in August 2017. Nintendo Switch and mobile phones versions were released in 2018 and 2019, both iOS and Android respectively.

The Escapists: The Walking Dead	The Walking Dead is an American zombie apocalypse media franchise centered on a number of television series based on the comic book of the same name. Set in one fictional shared universe, the franchise has developed into six live-action television series, with two additional series in development. The franchise also includes eight web series that tie into the first two television series. The series all air on AMC and AMC+.

Eschatos	The ship has two modes of fire: the long-range Front Shot and the short-range Wide Shot. The ship features a regenerative shield capable of absorbing enemy bullets, but with overuse can deteriorate. The game has three game modes including Original, Advanced and Time Attack. In Original mode, there are only two pick-up items including 1Ups and the Flash icon which destroys all enemies and enemy shots on-screen. Advanced mode however includes a few more items including an alternate Flash icon and Power Ups. Collecting Power Ups increase player firepower, but decreases shield percentage.

ESP Ra.De. Psi	Developed in conjunction with Dangun Feveron (1998), ESP Ra.De. began production immediately after completion of DoDonPachi (1997). It was the first project by Junya Inoue as art director at Cave, who wanted it to be a visually attractive shoot 'em up for players taking place in a realistic setting with humans as characters. The game did not see any contemporary home ports due to rights and publishing issues with Atlus until it was re-released as ESP Ra.De. Psi for the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 in 2019 by M2.

Eternights	Combat in Eternights is that of a hack and slash game. Dodging an enemy attack with precision slows down time, giving the player a better opportunity to attack. Hitting an enemy enough times within a short period creates a combo, allowing the player to perform a stronger attack or a finisher. Attacking enemies or performing Perfect Dodges charges the Elemental Gauge, and parts of the Gauge can be used for an Elemental Fist attack that breaks enemy barriers if the player succeeds in a quick-time event. SP can be spent during battle to use special abilities which are granted through other characters.

Ether One	In Ether One, the player assumes the role of a "Restorer", whose job is to investigate the thoughts of Jean Thompson, a 69-year-old woman diagnosed with dementia. The player must reconstruct Thompson's memories using three-dimensional simulations of the details she can remember in the town of Pinwheel, solving puzzles that become more obtuse throughout the gameplay, as the patient's thoughts continue to grow more unstable.

Eve: Valkyrie - Warzone	In Eve: Valkyrie, players assumed the identity of a cloned ace pilot, with the pilot ostensibly remembering previous deaths and failures. One of the central characters of the plot, Rn Kavik, is voiced by Katee Sackhoff.

Even the Ocean	The game includes platforming and story elements, putting the player in the role of Aliph, a Power Plant engineer working for the game's central city of Whiteforge.

Everspace	Everspace is a 3D space shooter with roguelike elements developed and published by German studio Rockfish Games. It was released in 2017. A sequel, Everspace 2 was released in 2023.

Everspace 2	Everspace 2 is a space combat video game played from a third-person perspective. Unlike its predecessor, Everspace 2 does not feature any elements commonly found in roguelike games. The game's world is split into several large levels across a series of star systems, which can be freely explored by players. The player's spacecraft can be equipped with various weapons. Players can purchase new ships from ship dealers using credits. Ship upgrades, such as new guns, secondary weapon, and special attacks, can also be purchased. Ship types are similar to character classes, as each of them has their own unique skills and abilities. When an enemy is defeated, players can collect their resources and gear. As the player progresses, they can equip themselves with better gear and take on tougher enemies.

Everybody's Golf	Everybody's Golf is a sports video game developed by Clap Hanz and Japan Studio and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It is the twelfth game in the Everybody's Golf video game series, and was released worldwide in August 2017.

Everybody's Gone to the Rapture	Everybody's Gone to the Rapture is an adventure video game developed by The Chinese Room and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. The game is a story-based game, taking place in a small English village whose inhabitants have mysteriously disappeared. It is considered a spiritual successor to Dear Esther, also by The Chinese Room. It was released for PlayStation 4 on 11 August 2015 and for Windows on 14 April 2016. It received positive reviews from critics.

Everything	Everything is a simulation game where the player can explore a generated universe and control various objects. The player starts as one of many moving creatures. Initially, the player can shift control to any creature or object smaller than the currently occupied one. The scale of gameplay expands or contracts accordingly. Eventually the player can only shift into smaller parts of matter, down to the sub-atomic level, after which the game then allows the player to shift to larger objects. From this point, the player can take forms that include landmasses, planets, and whole star systems. As the player moves and shifts forms, other creatures or objects speak. The game uses many levels of existence, representing different length scales, which the player can move between while shifting into different objects.

Evil Dead: The Game	Evil Dead: The Game was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on May 13, 2022. A version for the Nintendo Switch was planned, but cancelled in September 2023 along with live content support for the game.

Evil Genius 2: World Domination	Evil Genius 2: World Domination is a real-time strategy and simulation video game developed and published by Rebellion Developments. As the sequel to Evil Genius (2004), which was developed by the now-defunct Elixir Studios, the game was released for Microsoft Windows on 30 March 2021, and PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on 30 November 2021.

Evil West	Evil West is a third-person shooter. The player assumes control of Jesse Rentier, a vampire hunter. Jesse is equipped with several powerful firearms including a six-shot revolver, a lever-action rifle, and a flamethrower. He also has access to various melee attacks through a specialized gauntlet capable of accumulating electrical energy. Enemies can be stunned and staggered following a melee attack, allowing players to execute them using a special finisher move. Players can use the environment to their advantage. For instance, they can kick enemies into a spike trap, or shoot explosive barrels. Players will occasionally encounter boss characters, which are powerful enemies with unique attack patterns. As the player progresses, they will level up and gain skills and abilities. The campaign can be played cooperatively with another player.

The Evil Within	The Evil Within is a survival horror video game developed by Tango Gameworks and published by Bethesda Softworks. The game was directed by Resident Evil series creator Shinji Mikami and was released worldwide in October 2014 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox 360, and Xbox One.

The Evil Within 2	The Evil Within 2 is a survival horror video game developed by Tango Gameworks and published by Bethesda Softworks for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. It was released worldwide in October 2017 and is the sequel to 2014's The Evil Within.

Evolve	Evolve is a first-person shooter video game developed by Turtle Rock Studios and published by 2K. Announced in January 2014, the game was released worldwide for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in February 2015. Evolve uses an asymmetrical multiplayer structure, where five playersfour playing as hunters and one as the monsterbattle against each other on an industrialized alien planet called Shear. The hunters' gameplay is based on the first-person shooter design, while the monsters are controlled from a third-person perspective. The hunters' goal is to eliminate the monster, while the monster's goal is to consume wildlife and evolve to make themselves stronger before either eliminating the hunters, or successfully destroying the objective.

Exception	The game is set inside a computer system taken over by viruses in which players control a protagonist attempting to stop these viruses.  Gameplay is based in environments which rotate and transform.  The title consists of more than 100 levels which include leaderboards which allow players to compete for the fastest times.  Exception's soundtrack includes contributions from synthwave musician Waveshaper with eight additional artists.

Exile's End	In 2007, AQ Interactive, Inc. announced the acquisition of Xseed Games, with share transfer before June. The deal was signed on April 24, and the share transfer was completed on June 26. Xseed Games joined the forces with Marvelous Entertainment (MMV) to co-publish their games in North America in 2008. At E3 2008, MMV USA and Xseed Games distinguished the games that would be co-published under the agreement and the games that Xseed would publish separately.

Exist Archive	The game is a side scrolling role-playing video game. Many journalists considered it a spiritual sequel to the Valkyrie Profile series of games also by tri-Ace.

Exit the Gungeon	Exit the Gungeon is a 2019 bullet hell platform game co-developed by Dodge Roll and Singlecore Games and published by Devolver Digital. It was released for iOS through Apple Arcade on September 19, 2019, for macOS, Windows, and Nintendo Switch on March 17, 2020, and for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on November 13, 2020. A sequel to Enter the Gungeon, players take control of one of four playable characters as they attempt to escape the collapsing Gungeon. The game received mixed reviews on release.

Extinction	Extinction is an action game. It features similar gameplay to Shadow of the Colossus. It is also partly inspired by the anime series Attack on Titan.

F1 2015	F1 2015 is a racing game based on the 2015 Formula One season developed by Codemasters. Released in July, it features the team and driver line-ups from the 2015 season, including the Autdromo Hermanos Rodrguez. It also features all the drivers, cars and circuits from the 2014 season (i.e. Caterham F1, and the Hockenheimring, which was removed from the calendar). It is the last game from Codemasters branded under the Codemasters Racing label and the first title in the F1 series released for eighth generation consoles.

F1 2016	F1 2016 is a racing game which is based on the 2016 Formula One season and was developed by Codemasters Birmingham, published by Codemasters, distributed by Deep Silver in North America and Ubisoft in Japan. The game was released on 19 August for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Windows. The game was also released for iOS, Android and tvOS on 10 November. A Mac version by Feral Interactive was released on 6 April 2017.

F1 2017	F1 2017 is the official video game of the 2017 FIA Formula One World Championship, released for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Windows on 25 August. The game includes all of the twenty circuits, twenty drivers and ten teams competing in the season. The macOS version, developed by Feral Interactive, was released simultaneously with the other versions, a first in the series' history. The Linux version, also by Feral Interactive, was released on 2 November.

F1 2018	F1 2018 is the official video game of the 2018 Formula One World Championship developed and published by Codemasters. The game includes all twenty-one circuits from the calendar, and all twenty drivers and ten teams competing in the season. It was released on 24 August for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.

F1 2019	F1 2019 is the official video game of the 2019 Formula One and Formula 2 Championships developed and published by Codemasters. It is the twelfth title in the Formula One series developed by the studio. The game is the eleventh main series installment of the franchise, and it features all twenty-one circuits, twenty drivers and ten teams present in the 2019 Formula One World Championship. Codemasters said that the game was in development for nearly two years, and described it as "the most ambitious release in the franchise's history". This game is dedicated to Tony Porter, Niki Lauda, Charlie Whiting, and Anthoine Hubert.

F1 2020	F1 2020 is the official video game of the 2020 Formula 1 and Formula 2 Championships developed and published by Codemasters. It is the thirteenth title in the Formula 1 series developed by the studio and was released on 7 July for pre-orders of the Michael Schumacher Edition and 10 July for the Seventy Edition on Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and, for the first time, Stadia. The game is the twelfth main series installment in the franchise, and it features the twenty-two circuits, twenty drivers and ten teams proposed in the provisional 2020 Formula 1 World Championship.

F1 2021	F1 2021 is the official video game of the 2021 Formula One and Formula 2 Championships developed by Codemasters and published by EA Sports. It is the fourteenth title in the F1 series by Codemasters and the first in the series published by Electronic Arts under its EA Sports division since F1 Career Challenge in 2003, after Codemasters was acquired by Electronic Arts just a few months before the trailer was released.

F1 2022	F1 22 is a racing video game developed by Codemasters and published by EA Sports. It is the fifteenth  entry in the F1 series by Codemasters. The game holds an official licence of the 2022 Formula One and Formula 2 championships. The game was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on 1 July. It would also make its debut on EA's Origin platform as their main platform, which is also playable in the EA Desktop app, as well as the Epic Games Store. In previous entries, Steam was the only platform available for PC players. The game received mostly positive reviews from critics, with most user criticism aimed at the lack of innovation compared to previous titles and the new "F1 Life" mode, as well as the revised in-game vehicle handling model which caused controversy over its new traction system, linked to the real-life regulation change Formula 1 saw for the 2022 season.

F1 2023	F1 22 is a racing video game developed by Codemasters and published by EA Sports. It is the fifteenth  entry in the F1 series by Codemasters. The game holds an official licence of the 2022 Formula One and Formula 2 championships. The game was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on 1 July. It would also make its debut on EA's Origin platform as their main platform, which is also playable in the EA Desktop app, as well as the Epic Games Store. In previous entries, Steam was the only platform available for PC players. The game received mostly positive reviews from critics, with most user criticism aimed at the lack of innovation compared to previous titles and the new "F1 Life" mode, as well as the revised in-game vehicle handling model which caused controversy over its new traction system, linked to the real-life regulation change Formula 1 saw for the 2022 season.

Faeria	Faeria is a combination of a digital collectible card game with a "living" game board concept. Players in Faeria battle one-on-one against other players or computer-controlled opponents. Battles take place on an empty hex board, with two vying avatars placed on opposite sites of this map; the maps also include four Faeria (mana) wells at other corners. Each player starts with a deck of thirty cards.

Fairy Fencer F: Advent Dark Force	An expanded version, titled Fairy Fencer F: Advent Dark Force, was released in Japan in 2015 for the PlayStation 4, and was released worldwide in 2016. It received ports for Windows and Nintendo Switch in 2017 and 2019, respectively.

Fairy Tail	Fairy Tail (stylized in all caps) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Hiro Mashima. It was serialized in Kodansha's Weekly Shnen Magazine from August 2006 to July 2017, with the individual chapters collected and published into 63 tankbon volumes. The story follows the adventures of Natsu Dragneel, a member of the popular wizard guild Fairy Tail, as he searches the fictional world of Earth-land for the dragon Igneel.

The Falconeer: Warrior Edition	An enhanced version of the game, titled The Falconeer: Warrior Edition was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 and Nintendo Switch on August 5, 2021, receiving positive reviews. It was later ported to Stadia on October 5, 2021.

The Fall	The story centers on Arid, an artificial intelligence installed in a technologically advanced combat space suit, as she navigates a decaying industrial facility in search of medical attention for the suit's injured pilot with traditional adventure game elements requiring found items and unlocked skills to progress the story, along with 2D cover-based shooting. A sequel, The Fall Part 2: Unbound, was released in February 2018, with a third game to follow.

The Fall Part 2: Unbound	The story centers on Arid, an artificial intelligence installed in a technologically advanced combat space suit, as she navigates a decaying industrial facility in search of medical attention for the suit's injured pilot with traditional adventure game elements requiring found items and unlocked skills to progress the story, along with 2D cover-based shooting. A sequel, The Fall Part 2: Unbound, was released in February 2018, with a third game to follow.

Fall Guys: Ultimate Knockout	Fall Guys (formerly known as Fall Guys: Ultimate Knockout) is a free-to-play platform battle royale game developed by Mediatonic and published by Epic Games. The game involves up to 40 players who control bean-shaped characters and compete against each other in a series of randomly selected mini-games called "rounds" such as obstacle courses and survival challenges. Players are eliminated as the rounds progress until, eventually, the last remaining player is crowned the winner. The game draws inspiration from game shows like  Takeshi's Castle, It's a Knockout, Wipeout, and playground games like tag and British Bulldog.

Fallen Legion: Revenants	Fallen Legion is a role-playing video game series developed by Indonesian studio Mintsphere and YummyYummyTummy. The games are a series of action-based sidescrolling RPGs in the style of traditional JRPGs.

Fallen Legion: Sins of an Empire	Fallen Legion is a role-playing video game series developed by Indonesian studio Mintsphere and YummyYummyTummy. The games are a series of action-based sidescrolling RPGs in the style of traditional JRPGs.

Fallout 4	Fallout 4 is a 2015 action role-playing game developed by Bethesda Game Studios and published by Bethesda Softworks. It is the fourth main game in the Fallout series and was released worldwide on November 10, 2015, for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. The game is set within an open world post-apocalyptic environment that encompasses the city of Boston and the surrounding Massachusetts region known as "The Commonwealth".

Fallout 76	Fallout 76 is a 2018 action role-playing video game developed by Bethesda Game Studios and published by Bethesda Softworks. It is an installment in the Fallout series and a prequel to previous entries. Set in the year 2102, players control a resident of Vault 76 who must venture out into the dilapidated open world known as "Appalachia" in order to re-colonize the region, and uncover a mysterious plague that has killed off its inhabitants. Fallout 76 is Bethesda Game Studios's first multiplayer game; Bethesda developed the game using a modified version of its Creation Engine, which allowed the accommodation of multiplayer gameplay and a more detailed game world than in previous games.

Family Feud	ShareData released the first video game versions of the game show in 1987 on the Apple II and Commodore 64, with two versions of the packaging: one shows a drawing of a just completed round (using the Milton Bradley home game art design), and another shows a full shot of the set from the first Richard Dawson era. The game plays like the Dawson era (with the look similar to the 1976 - 1985 era) with (2 Single rounds, 1 Double Round, and 1 Triple Round - with 300 point rules and Fast Money Win of $10,000)

Fantasy General II	A successor called Fantasy General II: Invasion was released by publisher Slitherine Software and developer Owned by Gravity in 2019.

Far Cry 3 Classic	Far Cry 3 is a 2012 first-person shooter game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It is the third main installment in the Far Cry series after Far Cry 2. The game takes place on the fictional Rook Islands, a tropical archipelago which can be freely explored by players. Gameplay focuses on combat and exploration. Players can use a variety of weapons to defeat human enemies and hostile wildlife, and the game features elements found in role-playing games such as skill trees and experience. After a vacation goes awry, protagonist Jason Brody must save his friends, who have been kidnapped by pirates, and escape from the island and its unhinged inhabitants.

Far Cry 4	Far Cry 4 is a 2014 first-person shooter game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It is the successor to the 2012 video game Far Cry 3, and the fourth main installment in the Far Cry series. Set in the fictional Himalayan country of Kyrat, the game follows Ajay Ghale, a young Kyrati-American, who becomes caught in a civil war between Kyrat's Royal Army, controlled by the tyrannical king Pagan Min, and a rebel movement called the Golden Path. The gameplay focuses on combat and exploration; players battle enemy soldiers and dangerous wildlife using a wide array of weapons. The game features many elements found in role-playing games, such as a branching storyline and side quests. The game also features a map editor and both cooperative and competitive multiplayer modes.

Far Cry 5	Far Cry 5 is a 2018 first-person shooter, developed by Ubisoft Montreal and Ubisoft Toronto and published by Ubisoft. It is the successor to 2014's Far Cry 4, and the fifth main installment in the Far Cry series. Set in Hope County, a fictional region of Montana, United States, the game revolves around the Project at Eden's Gate, a doomsday cult that has taken over the county at the command of its charismatic and powerful leader, Joseph Seed. Players control an unnamed junior deputy sheriff who becomes trapped in Hope County and must work alongside various resistance factions to liberate the region from the despotic rule of the Seeds and Eden's Gate. Gameplay focuses on combat and exploration; players battle enemy soldiers and dangerous wildlife using a wide array of weapons. The game features many elements found in role-playing games, such as a branching storyline and side quests. The game also features a map editor, a co-operative multiplayer mode, and a competitive multiplayer mode.

Far Cry 6	Far Cry 6 is a 2021 first-person shooter game developed by Ubisoft Toronto and published by Ubisoft. It is the sixth main installment in the Far Cry series and the successor to 2018's Far Cry 5. The game is set on the fictional Caribbean island of Yara, ruled as a dictatorship by "El Presidente" Antn Castillo (portrayed by Giancarlo Esposito) who is raising his son Diego (Anthony Gonzalez) to follow in his rule. Players take on the role of guerilla fighter Dani Rojas (voiced by either Nisa Gunduz or Sean Rey), attempting to topple Castillo and his regime. Gameplay focuses on combat and exploration; players fight enemy soldiers and dangerous wildlife using a wide array of weapons and gadgets. The game features many elements found in role-playing games, such as a leveling up system and side quests. It also features a cooperative multiplayer mode.

Far Cry Primal	Far Cry Primal is a 2016 action-adventure game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It is the tenth installment in the Far Cry series. Set during prehistoric times, the game follows the story of Takkar, who starts off as an unarmed hunter but will rise to become the leader of a tribe, using his special gift of taming animals. Primal adapts the traditional Far Cry formula to its prehistoric setting, replacing modern firearms with primitive weapons like spears, clubs, and bows and arrows, and allowing players to summon animal companions during battles. Everyday survival is a key aspect of the gameplay, as players have to watch out for both natural predators and rival tribesmen.

Far: Lone Sails	In FAR, the player controls the driver of a large vehicle as they search through a post-apocalypse setting. The game's vehicle has been modified a number of times. The game is played from a side-scrolling perspective, with the vehicle interior seen as a cross-section. To control the vehicle the player must move around inside it, operating stations and pressing buttons to perform various functions that keep the vehicle moving, such as engaging the engine or filling the boiler with fuel sources found over the course of the player's journey. The various parts of the vehicle can take damage, requiring the player to stop and extinguish fires and repair damaged systems. They are also required to solve puzzles in the world to allow the vehicle to pass and collect upgrades for it. The game has no enemies, though the player-character can die due to environmental hazards, and will restart at the last checkpoint.

Farming Simulator 15	The games have sold over 25 million copies combined, as well as had 90 million mobile downloads.
The game was originally revised, expanded, and re-released every two years, (excluding their newest release) with better graphics, a larger array of vehicles, and more interesting tasks for the user to perform.

Farming Simulator 17	The games have sold over 25 million copies combined, as well as had 90 million mobile downloads.
The game was originally revised, expanded, and re-released every two years, (excluding their newest release) with better graphics, a larger array of vehicles, and more interesting tasks for the user to perform.

Farming Simulator 19	The games have sold over 25 million copies combined, as well as had 90 million mobile downloads.
The game was originally revised, expanded, and re-released every two years, (excluding their newest release) with better graphics, a larger array of vehicles, and more interesting tasks for the user to perform.

Farming Simulator 22	The games have sold over 25 million copies combined, as well as had 90 million mobile downloads.
The game was originally revised, expanded, and re-released every two years, (excluding their newest release) with better graphics, a larger array of vehicles, and more interesting tasks for the user to perform.

Fast & Furious Crossroads	Fast & Furious Crossroads is a racing and action role-playing video game based on the Fast & Furious film franchise. It was developed by Slightly Mad Studios, a subsidiary studio of the British developer Codemasters, and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. The game was scheduled to release on PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in May 2020, but was delayed to August 7 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic following the postponement of F9. Upon release, the game received mostly negative reviews.

Fast Striker	Fast Striker was developed in conjunction with HUCAST's DUX over the course of six years after the Hellwig brothers founded NG:Dev.Team and development of their first video game, Last Hope, was completed. The team went with a different approach for their vertical-scrolling shooter project compared to the level memorization focus of Last Hope, emphasising fast-paced reflex action and an elaborate scoring system. The staff also received support from German shooter communities during beta testing, advising from Twinkle Star Sprites designer Yoshiyasu Matsushita and approval from SNK Playmore.

Fatal Frame: Maiden of Black Water	Fatal Frame: Maiden of Black Water is a survival horror video game developed by Koei Tecmo. The fifth main entry in the Fatal Frame series, it was originally published by Nintendo for the Wii U in Japan in September 2014 and worldwide in October 2015. A remaster for eighth and ninth generation consoles and Windows, this time published by Koei Tecmo, was released worldwide in October 2021.

Fate/Extella Link	Fate/Extella is a single-player action game in which the player takes the role of a "master", who works together with spirits known as servants, who fight large numbers of enemies similar to Dynasty Warriors. The player can customize the master, choosing their name and gender. There are sixteen playable servants in the game, divided into eight classes: Saber, Archer, Lancer, Caster, Assassin, Rider, Berserker, and Extra Class. Different servants have different fighting styles: the Saber swordswoman Nero Claudius has powerful sword skills and balanced abilities; the Caster magus Tamamo no Mae can use magic skills and raw firepower but lower defense; and the Saber swordswoman Attila uses a violent battle style.

Fate/Extella: The Umbral Star	Fate/Extella is a single-player action game in which the player takes the role of a "master", who works together with spirits known as servants, who fight large numbers of enemies similar to Dynasty Warriors. The player can customize the master, choosing their name and gender. There are sixteen playable servants in the game, divided into eight classes: Saber, Archer, Lancer, Caster, Assassin, Rider, Berserker, and Extra Class. Different servants have different fighting styles: the Saber swordswoman Nero Claudius has powerful sword skills and balanced abilities; the Caster magus Tamamo no Mae can use magic skills and raw firepower but lower defense; and the Saber swordswoman Attila uses a violent battle style.

Fat Princess Adventures	Unlike its predecessor, Fat Princess Adventures is a 4-player, co-op hack-and-slash dungeon crawler. Players can switch between four character classes at anytime, Warrior, Mage, Archer, and Engineer, each with their own unique abilities and progression paths. At certain points within the game, the princesses serve as non-playable guides to the players, assisting with magic attacks, healing spells, and turning enemies into cake.

Fault Milestone One	Fault Milestone One is a visual novel video game developed by Alice in Dissonance and published by Sekai Project. It was first released in Japan for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux in 2013, with an English version localized and released by Sekai Project the following year. Versions for the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 were later released in 2020.

Fault Milestone Two Side: Above	Fault Milestone Two is a visual novel developed by Alice in Dissonance and published by Sekai Project for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux. It is the second entry in the Fault series, and is set immediately after the events of Fault Milestone One. The game features no player choices, and follows the characters of Selphine and Ritona, who were transported across the world following an attack on their kingdom of Rughzenhaide. Together, with their newfound friend Rune, the game follows their attempt to return to Rughzenhaide to confront the forces that lead the attack.

Fault Milestone Two Side: Below	Fault Milestone Two is a visual novel developed by Alice in Dissonance and published by Sekai Project for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux. It is the second entry in the Fault series, and is set immediately after the events of Fault Milestone One. The game features no player choices, and follows the characters of Selphine and Ritona, who were transported across the world following an attack on their kingdom of Rughzenhaide. Together, with their newfound friend Rune, the game follows their attempt to return to Rughzenhaide to confront the forces that lead the attack.

Fe	Fe is the first game in the EA Originals series, which is EA's program created to promote indie developers.

Feist	It was published by Finji Games as a platform game. The developer is Bits & Beasts in Switzerland.

Felix the Reaper	The developers of Felix the Reaper were inspired by historical artistic depictions of death, specifically the Danse Macabre concept, which depict the dead dancing on their way to the grave. The game was under development for 8 years prior to its multiplatform release in October 2019 to mixed reviews. Some critics appreciated the novelty of the game's concept and its aesthetic presentation, while others found the game's puzzles to be overly frustrating or uninspired.

Feudal Alloy	Attu is a robot whose village was raided by bandits. He decides to take an action and sets out after the bandits to get the stolen goods back.

Fez	Fez is a 2012 indie puzzle-platform game developed by Polytron Corporation and published by Trapdoor. The player-character Gomez receives a fez that reveals his two-dimensional (2D) world to be one of four sides of a three-dimensional (3D) world. The player rotates between these four 2D views to realign platforms and solve puzzles. The objective is to collect cubes and cube fragments to restore order to the universe.

FIA European Truck Racing Championship	The FIA European Truck Racing Championship is a motorsport truck road racing series for semi-tractors which is sanctioned to the Fdration Internationale de l'Automobile and is organised by ETRA Promotion GmbH.

FIFA 14	FIFA 14 is a football simulation video game developed by EA Canada and published by Electronic Arts worldwide under the EA Sports label. It was released in September 2013 for the PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Portable, PlayStation Vita, Xbox 360, Wii, Nintendo 3DS and Microsoft Windows. It was released as a freemium, under the title FIFA 14 Mobile, for iOS and Android on 23 September 2013 and for Windows Phone 8 on 28 February 2014, although much of the game is inaccessible without an in-app payment. It was a launch title for both the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in November 2013. The PlayStation 2 version was only released in PAL territories and Spanish-speaking markets, and was the last game released for the system in the Americas. The PlayStation Portable version was only released as a digital download in North America.

FIFA 15	FIFA 15 is a football simulation video game developed by EA Canada and published by Electronic Arts under the EA Sports label. It was released on 23 September 2014 in North America, 25 September in Europe and 26 September in the United Kingdom and Ireland for the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Nintendo 3DS, Wii, Xbox One, Xbox 360, Microsoft Windows, iOS, Android and Windows Phone. On PC for the first time, FIFA 15 runs on EA's Ignite engine with the same features as the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 editions.  This is the final game in the FIFA series to be available on the Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Wii and PlayStation Vita, as well as the last game published by Electronic Arts for the former.

FIFA 16	FIFA 16 is a football simulation video game developed by EA Canada and published by Electronic Arts under the EA Sports label. It was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, 
Xbox 360, Xbox One, Android and iOS.

FIFA 17	FIFA 17 is a football simulation video game developed and published by Electronic Arts under the EA Sports label. It was released in September 2016 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One. This is the first FIFA game in the series to use the Frostbite game engine. Borussia Dortmund player Marco Reus serves as the cover athlete on the game.

FIFA 18	FIFA 18 is a football simulation video game developed and published by Electronic Arts and released worldwide on 29 September 2017 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One and Nintendo Switch. It is the 25th installment in the FIFA series. Portuguese footballer Cristiano Ronaldo, at the time contracted to Real Madrid, appears as the cover athlete of the regular edition, as well as the alternate covers of the Icon and 2018 FIFA World Cup editions of the game.

FIFA 19	FIFA 19 is a football simulation video game developed by EA Vancouver and released by Electronic Arts on 28 September 2018 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, and Microsoft Windows. It is the 26th installment in the FIFA series.

FIFA 20	FIFA 20 is a football simulation video game published by Electronic Arts as part of the FIFA series. It is the 27th installment in the series and was released on 27 September 2019 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Nintendo Switch. This is the first game in the main series  to not have Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions since FIFA 06 and FIFA 07 respectively.

FIFA 21	FIFA 21 is an association football simulation video game published by Electronic Arts as part of the FIFA series. It is the 28th installment in the FIFA series, and was released on 9 October 2020 for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. Enhanced versions for the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X and Series S were released on 3 December 2020, in addition to a version for Stadia in March 2021.

FIFA 22	Kylian Mbapp is the cover athlete for the second consecutive year.

FIFA 23	FIFA 23 is a football video game published by EA Sports. It is the 30th installment in the FIFA series that is developed by EA Sports, the final installment under the FIFA banner, and released worldwide on 30 September 2022 for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S.

Fighting EX Layer	Fighting EX Layer is a fighting video game developed by Arika. It is a spiritual successor to Fighting Layer and the Street Fighter EX series and features many of the same characters from the latter. The game was released for PlayStation 4 in June 2018, with ports for Microsoft Windows and Arcade released the following November. A mobile version of the game, titled Fighting EX Layer -, was later released for iOS and Android devices in April 2019. A Nintendo Switch port of the game, Fighting EX Layer Another Dash was released in 2021.

Final Fantasy VII	Final Fantasy VII is a 1997 role-playing video game developed by Square for the PlayStation console and the seventh main installment in the Final Fantasy series. Square published the game in Japan, and it was released in other regions by Sony Computer Entertainment, becoming the first game in the main series to have a PAL release. The game's story follows Cloud Strife, a mercenary who joins an eco-terrorist organization to stop a world-controlling megacorporation from using the planet's life essence as an energy source. Events send Cloud and his allies in pursuit of Sephiroth, a superhuman who seeks to wound the planet and harness its healing power to be reborn as a god. During their journey, Cloud bonds with his party members, including Aerith Gainsborough, who holds the secret to saving their world.

Final Fantasy VII Remake	Final Fantasy VII Remake is an action role-playing game by Square Enix and released for PlayStation 4 in April 2020. An enhanced version, Final Fantasy VII Remake Intergrade, was released for PlayStation 5 and Windows in 2021. 

Final Fantasy VIII Remastered	Final Fantasy VIII is a 1999 role-playing video game developed and published by Square for the PlayStation console. It is the eighth main installment in the Final Fantasy series. Set on an unnamed fantasy world with science fiction elements, the game follows a group of young mercenaries, led by Squall Leonhart, as they are drawn into a conflict sparked by a sorceress named Edea Kramer who seized control of a powerful military state. During the quest to defeat the sorceress and the forces manipulating her, Squall struggles with his role as leader and develops a romance with one of his comrades, Rinoa Heartilly.

Final Fantasy IX	Final Fantasy IX is a 2000 role-playing video game developed and published by Square for the PlayStation video game console. It is the ninth game in the main Final Fantasy series. The plot focuses on a war between nations in a medieval fantasy world called Gaia. Players follow a thief named Zidane Tribal who kidnaps princess Garnet Til Alexandros XVII as part of a ploy by the neighboring nation of Lindblum. He joins Garnet and a growing cast of characters on a quest to take down her mother, Queen Brahne of Alexandria, who started the war.

Final Fantasy X/X-2 HD Remaster	Final Fantasy X/X-2 HD Remaster is a high-definition remaster of the role-playing video games Final Fantasy X (2001) and Final Fantasy X-2 (2003), originally developed by Square (now Square Enix) on the PlayStation 2 in the early 2000s. It also features story content previously only found in the International versions, and a new audio drama set a year after the events of X-2. The collection saw graphical and musical revisions and is based on the international versions of both games, making certain content accessible to players outside of Japan for the first time.

Final Fantasy XII: The Zodiac Age	Final Fantasy XII is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square Enix. The twelfth main installment of the Final Fantasy series, it was first released for the PlayStation 2 in 2006. It introduced several innovations to the series: an open world; a seamless battle system; a controllable camera; a customizable "gambit" system, which lets the player control the artificial intelligence (AI) of characters in battle; a "license" system, which determines what abilities and equipment can be used by characters; and hunting side quests, which allows the player to find and defeat increasingly difficult monsters in the game's open world. Final Fantasy XII also includes elements from previous games in the series, such as Chocobos and Moogles.

Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn	Final Fantasy XIV is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) developed and published by Square Enix. Directed and produced by Naoki Yoshida and released worldwide for PlayStation 3 and Windows in August 2013, it replaced the failed 2010 version, with subsequent support for PlayStation 4, OS X, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X and Series S. Final Fantasy XIV is set in the fantasy region of Eorzea, five years after the devastating Seventh Umbral Calamity which ended the original version. In the Calamity, the elder primal Bahamut escaped from his prison, an ancient space station called Dalamud, unleashing an apocalypse across Eorzea. Through temporal magic, the player character of the original version escaped, reappearing at the start of A Realm Reborn. As Eorzea cements its recovery, the player must fend off a reignited invasion from the Garlean Empire.

Final Fantasy XIV: Heavensward	Final Fantasy XIV: Heavensward is the first expansion pack to Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn, a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) developed and published by Square Enix for macOS, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, and Windows. It was released on June 23, 2015, nearly two years after the debut of A Realm Reborn. Naoki Yoshida served as director and producer and Nobuo Uematsu, who had not worked on the title since the ill-fated 2010 launch of the original Final Fantasy XIV, returned to collaborate with Masayoshi Soken on the soundtrack. The expansion pack was released as a standalone product for current players, as well as an "all-in-one" bundle containing A Realm Reborn and Heavensward. The latter was the only way to access the OS X version of the game, which premiered on the same day as the expansion pack's launch.

Final Fantasy XIV: Stormblood	Final Fantasy XIV: Stormblood is the second expansion pack to Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn, a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) developed and published by Square Enix for macOS, PlayStation 4, and Windows. It was released on June 20, 2017, just under two years after Heavensward, the previous expansion. Like for its predecessor, Naoki Yoshida served as director and producer and Masayoshi Soken composed the soundtrack, with Nobuo Uematsu contributing the theme song. The expansion pack was released as a standalone product for current players; for new players, the "Complete Edition" of Final Fantasy XIV that originally launched with Heavensward was updated to include both expansions. In order to make necessary engine improvements, service for the PlayStation 3 game client was terminated with the expansion's early access period. A special upgrade campaign allowed affected players to obtain the PlayStation 4 version for free.

Final Fantasy XIV: Shadowbringers	Shadowbringers takes place on the First, a parallel dimension on the brink of collapse, where the player character is summoned to rescue and restore the world. Several comrades accidentally trapped there join them, as well as Emet-Selch, an immortal villain who seeks to harness the First's apocalypse to restore his deity, Zodiark. Emet-Selch accompanies and tests the player character, confident despite their meddling. In addition to adding new areas, the expansion pack increased the level cap, debuted two character classes and two playable races, and introduced the ability to explore dungeons with non-playable "Trust" companions.

Final Fantasy XV	Final Fantasy XV is an action role-playing game developed and published by Square Enix. The fifteenth main installment of the Final Fantasy series, it was released for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in 2016, Windows in 2018, and as a launch title for Stadia in 2019. The game features an open world environment and action-based battle system, incorporating quick-switching weapons, elemental magic, and other features such as vehicle travel and camping. The base campaign was later expanded with downloadable content (DLC), adding further gameplay options such as additional playable characters and multiplayer.

Final Fantasy: Crystal Chronicles Remastered	Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles is an action role-playing video game developed by The Game Designers Studio and published by Nintendo for the GameCube. It was released in 2003 in Japan and 2004 in North America, Europe and Australia. A remastered version for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Android, and iOS was released in August 2020. A spin-off of the Final Fantasy series and beginning of the series of the same name, Crystal Chronicles was the first title in the franchise to be released for a Nintendo home console since Final Fantasy VI in 1994.

Final Fantasy Type-0 HD	Final Fantasy Type-0 HD (Japanese:  HD, Hepburn: Fainaru Fantaj Reishiki HD) is an action role-playing game developed by Square Enix and HexaDrive, and published by Square Enix for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and later for Windows via Steam. It was released worldwide in March 2015, while the Steam port was released in August. Type-0 HD is a high-definition remaster of the Japan-exclusive PlayStation Portable game Final Fantasy Type-0, a spin-off from the main Final Fantasy series and part of the Fabula Nova Crystallis subseries, a set of games sharing a common mythos. The story focuses on Class Zero, a group of fourteen students from the Dominion of Rubrum who must fight the neighboring Militesi Empire when they launch an assault on the other Crystal States of Orience. In doing so, the group become entangled in both the efforts to push back and defeat the forces of Militesi, and the secret behind the war and the existence of the crystals.

The Final Station	The game received mixed to positive reviews from critics, who praised its originality and world-building but criticized its linearity. DLC titled The Only Traitor was released on April 19, 2017, featuring a new main character and taking place concurrently with the events of the main story.

Fire Pro Wrestling World	Fire Pro Wrestling World sees a return to the timing and strategy based gameplay the series has become famous for, which was dropped in the series' last game, Fire Pro Wrestling for the Xbox 360 in 2012, in favor of a button-mashing mini-game. Game modes include the traditional death matches, including steel cages, barbed wire and landmines, MMA rules matches, and more. Fire Pro Wrestling World is the first game in the series to incorporate online multiplayer, holding up to four players in a match.

Firewatch	Firewatch is an adventure game developed by Campo Santo and published by the developer in partnership with Panic. The game was released in February 2016 for Linux, OS X, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in September 2016, and for Nintendo Switch in December 2018. The story follows a fire lookout named Henry who works in Shoshone National Forest. Henry interacts with his supervisor Delilah using a walkie-talkie, with the player choosing from dialog options to communicate. His exchanges with Delilah inform the process by which their relationship is developed. Over the course of the summer, Henry and Delilah appear to be menaced by unseen forces and have to unravel a years-old mystery.

Fishing: Barents Sea	According to review aggregator Metacritic, Fishing: Barents Sea has received mixed reviews and has a score of 69.

F.I.S.T.: Forged In Shadow Torch	F.I.S.T. received "generally favorable reviews" on Metacritic for the PlayStation 5, Windows, and Switch versions. The PlayStation 4 version of the game received "mixed or average reviews".

Fist of the North Star: Lost Paradise	Lost Paradise is an action role-playing game played from a third-person perspective. It features experience points, abilities; and similar action-adventure gameplay mechanics and systems to Sega's own Yakuza series. Players explore the city of Eden, fighting through enemy encounters in a beat 'em up gameplay style, punctuated by quick time events.

Five Nights at Freddy's	Five Nights at Freddy's (FNaF) is a 2014 point-and-click survival horror game developed and published by Scott Cawthon. The player takes on the role of Mike Schmidt, a night security guard at a family pizzeria. Schmidt must complete his shifts without being confronted by the homicidal animatronic characters that wander the restaurant at night. The player has access to security cameras to monitor the animatronics throughout the shift, and a set of steel doors that can lock out the characters. Using the cameras and doors consumes the player's limited electricity, and draining all of the power causes these tools to become inoperable.

Five Nights at Freddy's 3	Five Nights at Freddy's 3 (FNaF 3) is a 2015 point-and-click survival horror video game developed and published by Scott Cawthon. It is the third installment in the Five Nights at Freddy's series, and takes place in a horror-themed attraction based on the restaurant chain featured in the first two games. The player takes on the role of an unnamed security guard who must defend themself from a decrepit animatronic called Springtrap that roams the attraction while battling hallucinations of other withered animatronics. In order to survive, the player must monitor the building's security cameras while maintaining additional systems, which will occasionally shut down.

Five Nights at Freddy's: Sister Location	Five Nights at Freddy's: Sister Location is a 2016 point-and-click survival horror video game developed and published by Scott Cawthon. It is the fifth main installment in the Five Nights at Freddy's series and the sixth game overall. It was released on Steam on October 7, 2016. Ports have also been released for Android, iOS, Nintendo Switch, Xbox One, and PlayStation 4.

The Flame in the Flood	The player character is a young girl referred to as Scout. Her companion is a dog (named either Aesop or Daisy) who can sense danger and locate supplies. Scout uses a raft to traverse a large river, the result of an apocalyptic flood which has turned the land into a series of islands. The player must pay attention to Scout's needs such as her energy, thirst, hunger, warmth, and fatigue. Not paying attention to them can result in death. Like other roguelikes, death is permanent, although the player can restart at predetermined checkpoints along the river if they are playing in Campaign mode. There is a crafting system allowing the player to create new items. Players will need to scavenge areas for valuable items. Factors such as the weather impact the gameplay. Players are able to create insulated clothing to protect them from the cold. One of the developers referred to it as a "travelling survival game".

Flashback	The game was directed, written/designed and partially programmed by Paul Cuisset, who had previously created the adventure game Future Wars. Flashback was initially released for the Amiga in 1992, although originally created for the Mega Drive/Genesis. The Mega Drive/Genesis version was not released until 1993. Flashback was also ported to MS-DOS, Acorn Archimedes and Super NES in 1993. CD-ROM versions of Flashback for the Sega CD, 3DO, CD-i, MS-DOS, Apple Macintosh and the FM Towns were released during 1994 and 1995, together with a cartridge version for the Atari Jaguar in 1995. In 2017, the game was released worldwide on the Sega Dreamcast featuring graphic assets and cutscenes taken from the MS-DOS version and music from the Amiga version. An updated port titled Flashback: Remastered Edition was released for Nintendo Switch on June 7, 2018, for PlayStation 4 on November 20, 2018, and for Windows on November 29, 2018.

FlatOut 4: Total Insanity	FlatOut 4: Total Insanity is a racing video game that features local and online multiplayer.

Flinthook	Flinthook is platform game roguelike by Tribute Games in which the player's character uses a grappling hook to traverse procedurally generated spaceships for treasure. The developers were inspired by "rogue-lites" including Spelunky and Rogue Legacy. They said that the grappling hook game mechanic was their hardest design challenge. The game was released in April 2017 for Windows, macOS, Linux, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One, followed by a release for Nintendo Switch in March 2018. Early previews of Flinthook noted the accessibility and tightness of the controls. Digital Trends and Kotaku listed the game among the best in show at the June 2016 Electronic Entertainment Expo.

Flipping Death	Zoink AB was a Swedish video game developer based in Gothenburg. The company was founded by Klaus Lyngeled in 2001 and formed the Thunderful group with Image & Form in 2017. In 2020, Zoink was integrated into Thunderful Development.

Flockers	Flockers is a Lemmings-type strategy game made by Team17. The  game was released worldwide on September 19, 2014.

Flow	Flow (stylized as flOw) is an independent video game created by Jenova Chen and Nicholas Clark. Originally released as a free Flash game in 2006 to accompany Chen's master's thesis, it was reworked into a 2007 PlayStation 3 game by his development studio, Thatgamecompany, with assistance from Santa Monica Studio. SuperVillain Studios developed a PlayStation Portable version of the game in 2008, and PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita versions in 2013. In Flow, the player navigates a series of two-dimensional (2D) planes with an aquatic microorganism that evolves by consuming other microorganisms. The game's design is based on Chen's research into dynamic difficulty adjustment at the University of Southern California's Interactive Media Division, and on psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi's theoretical concept of mental immersion or flow.

Flower	Flower is a video game developed by Thatgamecompany and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. It was designed by Jenova Chen and Nicholas Clark and was released in February 2009 on the PlayStation 3, via the PlayStation Network. PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita versions of the game were ported by Bluepoint Games and released in November 2013. An iOS version was released in September 2017, and a Windows version was released in February 2019, both published by Annapurna Interactive. The game was intended as a "spiritual successor" to Flow, a previous title by Chen and Thatgamecompany. In Flower, the player controls the wind, blowing a flower petal through the air using the movement of the game controller. Flying close to flowers results in the player's petal being followed by other flower petals. Approaching flowers may also have side-effects on the game world, such as bringing vibrant color to previously dead fields or activating stationary wind turbines. The game features no text or dialogue, forming a narrative arc primarily through visual representation and emotional cues.

Forager	In Forager, the player progresses by obtaining resources that spawn throughout the world, crafting new buildings, objects, and tools, solving puzzles, and collecting money to buy new lands to explore and utilize.

Forced	Forced is an action role-playing game having a top-down view for up to four players in the combat arena. Players have to select a weapon, which has 16 unlockable abilities each, similar to a character class. Though single player mode is also available, the game is mostly about cooperative gameplay by selecting a weapon class and abilities which complement the other players', while combating demons of various sizes and solving environmental puzzlesusing a will-o-wisp-like companion called Balfus the Spirit Mentor.

For Honor	For Honor received generally favorable reviews, with the difficult and original combat mechanics being highlighted.

The Forest	The Forest is a survival horror video game developed and published by Endnight Games. The game takes place on a remote heavily forested peninsula, where the player character Eric LeBlanc must fight off cannibalistic monsters, while searching for his son Timmy after a plane crash. The game features nonlinear gameplay in an open world environment played from a first-person perspective, with no set missions or quests, empowering the player to make their own decisions for survival. Following a four-year long early access beta phase releasing in 2014, the finished 
game was released for Windows in April 2018, and for the PlayStation 4 in November 2018. The game was a commercial success, selling over five million copies by the end of 2018. A sequel game, Sons of the Forest, was released in Early Access for Windows on February 23, 2023.

Forgotton Anne	Forgotton Anne takes place in a fictional world called Forgotten Lands, a magical parallel universe where lost objects  everything from missing socks to discarded lamps  come to life, hoping one day that they might be remembered again and returned to the real world. The player controls Anne, an Enforcer who keeps order in the Forgotten Lands, who sets out to extinguish a rebellion that could prevent her master, Bonku, and herself from returning to the human world.

Foul Play	Foul Play is a 2013 brawler action-adventure developed by UK-based indie studio Mediatonic and published by Devolver Digital. It was released for Microsoft Windows and Xbox 360 on 18 September 2013 and for Mac OS X and Linux on 28 October 2013. After a port to PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita was announced in mid-2014, the PlayStation 4 received its early version of the game on 1 September 2015 in North America as part of the PlayStation Heroes charity campaign, while both the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita versions were actually released on 23 February 2016.

Fragments of Him	Fragments of Him is a video game developed and published by Sassybot and released for Microsoft Windows and Xbox One on 3 May 2016 and 1 June 2016, respectively. The PlayStation 4 version was released on 26 September 2017.

Freedom Planet	Freedom Planet is a 2014 platform game developed and published by American video game designer Sabrina DiDuro, for her studio GalaxyTrail. The player controls one of three anthropomorphic animal protagonists: the dragon girl Lilac, the wildcat Carol, or the basset hound Milla. Aided by a duck-like alien named Torque, the girls attempt to defeat the evil Lord Brevon, who plans to steal the Kingdom Stone and conquer the galaxy. While the game focuses on fast-paced platforming, its levels are interspersed with slower action scenes.

Friday the 13th: The Game	Friday the 13th: The Game is a 2017 asymmetrical survival horror game developed by IllFonic and published by Gun Media. It is based on the Friday the 13th franchise. The game was released on May 26, 2017 as a digital release and later released on October 13, 2017, as a physical release for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. A Nintendo Switch version was released on August 13, 2019.

Frostpunk	The game was initially released for Microsoft Windows in April 2018 and was later made available for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in October 2019, and macOS in February 2021. The game received generally positive reviews upon release and sold over 3 million copies within three years of its release. 11 Bit studios has partnered with NetEase Games to release a port for iOS and Android titled Frostpunk Mobile. A sequel, Frostpunk 2, is set to be released in 2024.

Fuga: Melodies of Steel	A sequel, Fuga: Melodies of Steel 2, was announced in July 2022 and was released on May 11, 2023.

Fuga: Melodies of Steel 2	Fuga 2 is set one year after the events of Fuga: Melodies of Steel, taking place in the same world modeled after World War II-era France and populated by anthropomorphic dogs ("Caninu") and cats ("Felineko"). With the recent armistice between the nations of Berman and Gasco, the bloody conflict which served as the backdrop of the previous game has ended. The main characters have separated to live peaceful lives until their gigantic tank, the Taranis mysteriously activates and goes on a rampage, capturing some of them in the process. Led by the young Caninu boy Malt Marzipan, the remaining children, along with their new ally Vanilla, board a new tank, the dread weapon Tarascus, to rescue them.

Full Metal Panic! Fight! Who Dares Wins	Full Metal Panic! (Japanese: !, Hepburn: Furumetaru Panikku!, often abbreviated to FMP!) is a series of light novels written by Shoji Gatoh and illustrated by Shikidouji. The series follows Sousuke Sagara, a member of the covert anti-terrorist private military organization known as Mithril, tasked with protecting Kaname Chidori, a hot-headed Japanese high school girl.

Full Throttle Remastered	Full Throttle is a 1995 graphic adventure video game developed by LucasArts and designed by Tim Schafer. It was Schafer's first game as project lead and head writer and designer, after having worked on other LucasArts titles including The Secret of Monkey Island (1990), Monkey Island 2: LeChuck's Revenge (1991), and Day of the Tentacle (1993). Set in the near future, the story follows motorcycle gang leader Ben, who must clear his name after being framed for the murder of a beloved motorcycle manufacturing mogul. A remastered version of the game was developed by Double Fine Productions and was released in April 2017 for Windows, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita, with later ports for iOS and Xbox One.

Furi	Furi is a 2016 action shoot 'em up video game developed and published by indie studio The Game Bakers available for PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, and Amazon Luna. The game takes place on a planet in a colorful, retro, science fiction setting and consists entirely of boss fights.

Fuser	In Fuser, the player takes the role of a DJ at a large concert and make a mashup of different songs. They have a virtual DJ table with four record players, custom instruments, sound filters, and up to 24 records (their crate) along the top of the screen. Each record has four tracks keyed by color and related to a type of musical instrument such as drums, guitar or vocals. At any time, the player can place a record, then select a specific track from that record, and then place it on any of the record players. This adds that instrument's track to the current mix across all four records, automatically adjusting the mix's tempo and musical key. New records/tracks can be added to any record player, overriding the previous track in the mix. Additionally, each player can be cued up with a second instrument track, which can be then switched back and forth individually, or all four players can be changed to the new ones by a single drop or using a "riser" that transitions them over a short period. Audio filters can be used on each instrument, and the user has the ability to create various instrument loops via a multibutton synthesizer which then can be added as another instrument to the current mix. This concept is comparable to Harmonix' prior game DropMix, which was a physical card game incorporating NFC technology with an electronic game board and mobile app that was published through Hasbro.

Fushigi no Gensky 3	The Touhou Project is set in Gensokyo, a land sealed from the outside world and primarily inhabited by humans and ykai, legendary creatures from Japanese folklore that are personified in Touhou as bishjo in an anthropomorphic moe style. Reimu Hakurei, the miko of the Hakurei Shrine and the main character of the series, is often tasked with resolving supernatural "incidents" caused in and around Gensokyo.

Futuridium EP Deluxe	Futuridium EP Deluxe is an indie shoot'em up video game developed by Italian developer MixedBag for the PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Microsoft Windows, OS X and Linux. It was released in North America on September 30, 2014 and on October 1, 2014 in Europe.

Gal Gun: Double Peace	The player takes the role of a male student, Houdai Kudoki, who attempts to shoot his female classmates with "Pheromone Shot" while he finds his "True Love" girlfriend.

Gal Gun 2	A remastered version, titled Gal Gun Returns, was released in Japan and Asia for Nintendo Switch on January 28, 2021, and in North America and Europe on February 12. A Windows version was also released worldwide on the same date.

Gal Gunvolt	The game was released for the Nintendo 3DS in Japan and North America in August 2014, and later in PAL regions in April 2015. A port for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita, titled Gal Gunvolt, was released in Japan in August 2015. A version of the original Mighty Gunvolt was released for Microsoft Windows, and was available for free to purchasers of Azure Striker Gunvolt within the first month of its release. A sequel, Mighty Gunvolt Burst, was released in June 2017.

Galak-Z: The Dimensional	Galak-Z: The Dimensional is a shooter video game developed and published by 17-Bit. It was released in August 2015 for the PlayStation 4 and October 2015 for Microsoft Windows, macOS and Linux. A Nintendo Switch port, subtitled Deluxe Edition, was released in March 2019 by Golem Entertainment. It was announced during Sony's pre-E3 2013 press conference in June 2013. 17-Bit CEO Jake Kazdal describes it as "modern Halo and Far Cry 3 combat in a 2-dimensional shell." Reflecting its inspiration in part by Japanese anime, the game is also known officially by the Japanese title of Uchuu Senshi Galak-Z (Z, lit., "Space Soldier Galak-Z").

Galaxy of Pen & Paper +1 Edition	Players control a group of friends who are playing a tabletop science fiction role-playing game.  The stories and friends make many pop culture references to science fiction franchises and authors.  The in-game characters can perform side quests, fight turn-based battles against enemies, and engage in ship battles.  It mixes retro pixel art and 3D graphics.

Game Dev Story	Game Dev Story is a simulation video game developed and published by Kairosoft for Microsoft Windows, iOS, Android, and Nintendo Switch. It was released for Windows in April 1997, on iOS and Android on October 9, 2010, for Windows Phone on July 6, 2015, for Nintendo Switch on October 11, 2018, on PlayStation 4 on February 11, 2021, on Steam on March 27, 2022, and on Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S on September 15, 2023. The game follows a player-controlled video game company and its attempts to expand into a sales powerhouse over time. As a simulation, the game and the direction of the company is controlled by the player, following a parallel timeline of the video game industry and its history. The game was released to positive reviews, with many reviewers focusing on Game Dev Story's addictive aspects and its witty references to video game pop culture.

Game of Thrones	The game follows the episodic format found in other Telltale titles, where player choices and actions influence later events across the six-episode arc. The story revolves around the northern House Forrester, rulers of Ironrath, whose members, including the five playable characters, attempt to save their family and themselves after ending up on the losing side of the War of the Five Kings. The game includes settings and characters from the series of novels A Song of Ice and Fire and the television adaptation. Emilia Clarke, Iwan Rheon, Kit Harington, Lena Headey, Natalie Dormer, and Peter Dinklage reprise their roles from the television series as Daenerys Targaryen, Ramsay Bolton, Jon Snow, Cersei Lannister, Margaery Tyrell, and Tyrion Lannister, respectively.

Game Tengoku CruisnMix	An updated port of the Sega Saturn version for PlayStation 4 and Microsoft Windows, titled Game Tengoku CruisnMix, was released on November 29, 2017. The official English localization was released on November 29, 2018. A port for Nintendo Switch was released in Japan on December 19, 2019. It was released in North America and Europe on May 28, 2020.

Gang Beasts	Gang Beasts is a beat 'em up party game developed and published by English indie studio Boneloaf. The title would originally be published by Double Fine Presents until May 2020 and self-published afterwards, while it would later be published in physical form by Skybound Games. The game released for Windows, macOS, Linux, and PlayStation 4 on the 12th of December 2017, following an early access period for the PC platforms that began in August 2014. It was also released on the Xbox One on the 27th of March 2019. A version for Nintendo Switch was released on the 12th October 2021.

The Gardens Between	The Gardens Between is an adventure/puzzle video game developed by Australian studio The Voxel Agents and published in September 2018 for Windows, macOS, Linux, Nintendo Switch, and PlayStation 4. It was later released for Xbox One in 2018, iOS in 2019, Android in 2020, and PlayStation 5 in 2022. The game, which conveys its story through visuals and gameplay rather than dialogue or narration, follows two children, Arina and Frendt, in the treehouse in a garden between their houses. In a dreamscape, they progress through sets of island levels, each representing different shared experiences. The characters walk along a path that winds through each level, and the player solves environment-based puzzles that prevent the pair from reaching and activating a portal at the end of the path. To do so, the player controls the flow of time forwards and backwards and causes the characters to interact with nearby objects and spheres of light, rather than moving the pair directly.

Garfield Kart: Furious Racing	A sequel, Garfield Kart: Furious Racing, was released in 2019. This game and its 2019 sequel were the final appearances of the Garfield Show designs of these characters.

Garou: Mark of the Wolves	Gameplay in Mark of the Wolves is set on a single two-dimensional movement plane, removing the "lane" system from prior Fatal Fury games that allowed characters to move between the foreground and background. The game introduces a new mechanic called the "Tactical Offense Position" (T.O.P.), indicated by a highlighted area on the characters' life gauges. When the gauge reaches this area, the character enters the T.O.P. mode, granting the player's character the ability to use a T.O.P. attack, gradual life recovery, and increased attack damage; players can set which portion of their life bar activates the T.O.P. mode before the match begins. The game also introduces the "Just Defend" system, which rewards the player who successfully blocks an attack at the last moment with a small amount of health recovery and the ability to immediately counterattack out of block stun. Just Defend was later added as a feature of the K-Groove in Capcom's Capcom vs. SNK 2.

Gauntlet: Slayer Edition	The player takes the role of one of four heroes, Thor the Warrior, Thyra the Valkyrie, Merlin the Wizard, or Questor the Elf (one player per character) allowing up to four-player multiplayer co-op gameplay. The dungeons to be explored are part defined maps and part procedurally generated.

Gekido: Kintaro's Revenge	In 2018, Gekido: Kintaro's Revenge was re-released for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Microsoft Windows.

Gem Smashers	Gem Smashers was originally announced in 2002 under the working title "Bau Bam Bom", named after the three playable characters. The game was ported to Wii and Nintendo 3DS on November 8, 2011, on iOS on November 15, 2012, on PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita on March 3, 2017, on Nintendo Switch on March 15, 2018, and on Xbox One on November 2, 2018.

Generation Zero	Generation Zero is an open-world, co-operative, first-person shooter, survival game that can be played online with up to three other players or solo.

Gens No Rondo	The Touhou Project is set in Gensokyo, a land sealed from the outside world and primarily inhabited by humans and ykai, legendary creatures from Japanese folklore that are personified in Touhou as bishjo in an anthropomorphic moe style. Reimu Hakurei, the miko of the Hakurei Shrine and the main character of the series, is often tasked with resolving supernatural "incidents" caused in and around Gensokyo.

Gens Rgoku no Kaleidoscope	Four friends who attend high school together as second-year students are kidnapped. Steel collars are placed around their necks, with chains attached to a torture chair in each corner of the room. A large cage dangles from the ceiling, in which a silent young boy dressed in all white is trapped. As the girls try to escape, a voice tells them that they are being put through a test with only two possible outcomes: either everyone will die, or one girl will die and the other three will survive. In addition, everyone will die if they exceed a five-minute time limit. The boy in the cage gives out four Cards of Fate to the girls, which will decide how the story unravels. There are two Judgement cards, a Pierrot card, and a Prisoner card. During the death game, an incident buried in the girls' past emerges.

Geometry Wars 3: Dimensions	 The player pilots a claw-shaped ship that can shoot independently of where it is pointing. The primary objective is to destroy a variety of enemy shapes which attempt to destroy the ship. Depending on the game mode, extra lives and extra supers can be collected upon achieving a certain number of points. Supers can be chosen before the game starts, and are expendable powerups that have extreme effects on the game, such as turrets that shoot enemies and a massive wave of bullets. In addition, several 'drones' may be selected to accompany the player to perform tasks, such as collecting geoms or firing on enemies.

Get Even	Get Even is a first-person shooter psychological thriller video game developed by The Farm 51 and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. The game was originally scheduled to be released on 26 May 2017, but due to the Manchester Arena bombing, it was delayed to 23 June 2017.

Ghost 1.0	The game received mostly positive reviews, that praised the game's visual style, story and action.

Ghostbusters: The Video Game Remastered	Ghostbusters: The Video Game is a 2009 action-adventure game based on the Ghostbusters media franchise. Terminal Reality developed the Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 versions, while Red Fly Studio developed the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, and Wii versions. The game was released after several delays in development and multiple publisher changes. In North America, all versions of the game were published by Atari Interactive, while in Europe, the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, and PlayStation 3 versions were published by Sony Computer Entertainment Europe. A separate game for the Nintendo DS with the same title was developed by Zen Studios and released at the same time, albeit with substantial differences in the gameplay and story.

Ghost of a Tale	Ghost of a Tale is an independent action role-playing stealth game developed primarily by game designer and DreamWorks and Universal Pictures veteran Lionel "Seith" Gallat. The title was funded by a successful Indiegogo crowd-funding campaign which ran from AprilMay 2013, raising 48,700. An early version was released in 2016 on Windows PCs and the Xbox One as part of Microsoft's ID@Xbox indie developer program. The final PC version was released on March 13, 2018. On February 16, 2019, it was announced that the release date of the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions would be March 12, 2019.
The game was  released for the Nintendo Switch on October 8, 2020. A version for Amazon Luna was released on October 20, 2020.

Ghost of Tsushima	Ghost of Tsushima is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Sucker Punch Productions and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The player controls Jin Sakai, a samurai on a quest to protect Tsushima Island during the first Mongol invasion of Japan. Jin must choose between following the warrior code to fight honorably, or using practical but dishonorable methods of repelling the Mongols with minimal casualties. The game features a large open world which can be explored either on foot or on horseback. When facing enemies, the player can choose to engage in a direct confrontation using Jin's katana or to become a legendary warrior known as "the Ghost" by using stealth tactics to assassinate opponents. A multiplayer mode titled Ghost of Tsushima: Legends was released in October 2020 and made available separately in September 2021.

Ghosts 'n Goblins Resurrection	Ghosts 'n Goblins Resurrection is a 2D side-scrolling platform game. The game once again features knight Arthur, who must navigate the Demon Realm and battle enemies such as zombies, skeleton murderers, demons, and Pigmen to rescue Princess Prin-Prin (credited as "the Princess") from demon lord Astaroth. Once the player defeats Astaroth and his superior, Lucifer, and finishes the game on any difficulty level except Page, they can complete the Shadow versions of each stage. These rearrange the placement and spawn points of enemies and introduce additional environmental challenges as well as one more final boss fight with an even more powerful demon named Hades.

Ghostrunner	Ghostrunner is a 2020 action platform video game co-developed by One More Level and Slipgate Ironworks, produced by 3D Realms, and co-published by 505 Games and All in! Games. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows and Xbox One in October 2020, and Nintendo Switch in November 2020, followed by a next gen release for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in September 2021. A version for Amazon Luna was made available in April 2021. A story expansion, titled Ghostrunner: Project Hel, was released on 3 March 2022. 

Ghoul Patrol	It is a sequel to the Zombies Ate My Neighbors (1993). Both games were re-released together as part of Lucasfilm Classic Games: Zombies Ate My Neighbors and Ghoul Patrol for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Windows in 2021 by Disney Interactive.

G.I. Joe: Operation Blackout	During an attack on the USS Flagg, Cobra has managed to take over the world by creating a device called the Blackout Sphere, which knocked out all electrical equipment across the globe and claimed Cobra's victory known as "C-Day". Now the Joes are being hunted down by Cobra and must figure out where their leader Duke is being held, find the other teammates, and take back the world from Cobra's clutches.

Giana Sisters: Twisted Dreams - Director's Cut	In addition to the Windows release, a console port has been released on Xbox Live Arcade, PlayStation Network and Nintendo eShop download service for Wii U. Mac and Linux support were promised after the release of Humble Indie Bundle 11 in February 2014, but have yet to be released. HandyGames, a THQ Nordic subsidiary released the game on Nintendo Switch.

Giga Wrecker Alt.	In Giga Wrecker, the main character Reika smashes obstacles and enemies into debris, then fashions the debris into weapons, balls, cubes, and other tools with which to fight stronger enemies, solve puzzles, and maneuver to new areas.

Giraffe and Annika	Giraffe and Annika received an aggregate score of 67/100 for the Windows version, 70/100 for the PlayStation 4 version, and 64/100 for the Switch version on Metacritic.

Girls und Panzer: Dream Tank Match	The series was directed by Tsutomu Mizushima, written by Reiko Yoshida and produced by Kiyoshi Sugiyama. Takaaki Suzuki, who had earlier acted as a military history advisor for Strike Witches and Upotte!!, was involved in the production of the anime. The TV series initially aired in Japan between October and December 2012, with two additional episodes that aired in March 2013 and an original video animation released in July 2014. Nine manga series and a light novel adaptation have been published by Media Factory. An animated film was released in Japanese theaters on November 21, 2015. A six-part theatrical anime series premiered in 2017.

Gnog	GNOG was developed by Montreal-based studio KO_OP. Originally titled "GNAH", the title was changed due to a trademark dispute. The game was showcased at the 2014 E3 "Horizon conference". It was shown at E3 2015 with a playable demo.

Goat Simulator	Goat Simulator is an action video game developed and published by Coffee Stain Studios. It was released for Microsoft Windows in April 2014, and ports for Linux and OS X were released in June 2014. Mobile versions for Android and iOS were released in September 2014. Versions for the Xbox 360 and Xbox One were released in April 2015, and for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 in August 2015; these ports were developed by Double Eleven. A Nintendo Switch version containing the game and downloadable content was released in January 2019.

God Eater Resurrection	A remaster of Gods Eater Burst for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita, titled God Eater Resurrection has been released on October 29, 2015, in Japan. It was released in Western territories in summer 2016 with North American and European divisions of Bandai Namco Entertainment publishing the game on PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Microsoft Windows.

God Eater 2: Rage Burst	In comparison to Gods Eater Burst, there are new features and additions such as the four new weapons, the Boost Hammer, Charge Spear, the Variant Scythe and the Shotgun. The Boost Hammer is a hammer fitted with a rocket booster. The Charge Spear is a large spear that can be "charged" to form a sharpened organic blade. The Variant Scythe is a large scythe that can extend for a long range. The Shotgun is a large cannon that sprays bullets, allowing increased damage the closer the player is to the opponent. Most of the existing weapons have additional features and skills, such as the Short Blade's "Rising Edge" upward slash that sends the character into mid-air and can continue to an aerial combo, and the Long Blade's "Zero Stance" skill that can cancel attack animations, thus allowing longer combos or cancel an attack to block or dodge attacks.

God Eater 3	Like its predecessor, the game is an action role-playing game with hack and slash gameplay. Players are equipped with God Arc weapons which can be transformed. In the game, players are tasked to hunt massive monsters known as Aragami. The player character is a God Eater who can absorb energy from monsters to unleash "Burst Arts", special attacks that deal a lot of damage to enemies. Companion characters, which are controlled by artificial intelligence, assist in combat. Players can activate the Engage System to share combat perks with them during combat. The game can be played cooperatively with four other players, while assault missions accommodate up to 8 players. God Eater 3 introduced three new God Arc weapon-types as well.

Godfall	Godfall is an action role-playing game developed by Counterplay Games and published by Gearbox Publishing. The game was released for PlayStation 5 and Windows on November 12, 2020. It was also released for the PlayStation 4 on August 10, 2021. An enhanced version of the game containing all downloadable content up to that point, titled Godfall: Ultimate Edition, was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on April 7, 2022. It received mixed reviews from critics.

God of War III Remastered	God of War III is an action-adventure hack and slash video game developed by Santa Monica Studio and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. First released for the PlayStation 3 on March 16, 2010, it is the fifth installment in the God of War series, the seventh chronologically, and the sequel to 2007's God of War II. Loosely based on Greek mythology, the game is set in ancient Greece with vengeance as its central motif. The player controls the protagonist Kratos, the former God of War, after his betrayal at the hands of Zeus, King of the Olympian gods, whom he learned was his father, Reigniting the Great War, Kratos ascends Mount Olympus until he is abandoned by the Titan Gaia. Guided by Athena's spirit, Kratos battles monsters, gods, and Titans in a search for Pandora, without whom he cannot open Pandora's Box, defeat Zeus, and end the reign of the Olympian gods to have his revenge.

God of War	God of War is an action-adventure game developed by Santa Monica Studio and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The game was released for the PlayStation 4 in April 2018, with a Windows port released in January 2022. It is the eighth installment in the God of War series, the eighth chronologically, and the sequel to 2010's God of War III.

God of War Ragnark	God of War Ragnark is an action-adventure game developed by Santa Monica Studio and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. It was released worldwide on November 9, 2022, for both the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5, marking the first cross-gen release in the God of War series. It is the ninth installment in the series, the ninth chronologically, and the sequel to 2018's God of War. Loosely based on Norse mythology, the game is set in ancient Scandinavia and features series protagonist, Kratos, and his now teenage son, Atreus. Concluding the Norse era of the series, the game covers Ragnark, the eschatological event which is central to Norse mythology and was foretold to happen in the previous game after Kratos killed the Aesir god Baldur.

God Wars: Future Past	The game plays as a tactical role-playing game, with the player navigating a team of characters across a grid in order to defeat an opposing party of characters in turn-based combat. It is "divided into chapters", with small episodes for each chapter. It's "hard to miss anything in the game as you can always go back and do things later." This includes "picking up treasure on Endboss maps." In fights, the player would "align characters on a grid based map in an isometric" pattern. The characters are strategies placed on tiles to "measure their attack ranges and effects." The player take turns "according to speed rating." Characters can create larger amounts of damage to enemies, either by attacking from behind or attacking from "higher ground."

Godzilla: The Game	Destruction mode consists of the player controlling Godzilla as he attacks certain stages (10 areas manually selected at the end of each round, from 25 levels), and is similar to Godzilla Generations. In order to clear the stage, the player must destroy all of the G-Energy Generators in the map, while also being attacked by G-Force and occasionally a boss (bosses must also be defeated to complete an area). Some of these stages are timed and the player must destroy all of the Generators before the timer expires. As Godzilla destroys objects such as buildings, G-Energy Generators, and military vehicles, he will increase in size. Godzilla begins the campaign at 50 meters in height, and can reach an almost limitless size. Bosses that Godzilla faces will be leveled at the appropriate height based on Godzilla's current size, although sometimes they are larger on the harder levels. But if Godzilla dies and the level is retried, the boss becomes smaller in size. In order to complete Destruction Mode and reach the game's true final boss, the player must exceed 100 meters in height by the last stage. After the credits roll the player will begin the final stage as Burning Godzilla and be attacked by the Super X3 and several DAG-MB96 Maser Cannons (also, enemies firing freeze missiles). After this, the Legendary Godzilla will appear as the game's true final boss and must be defeated before the timer expires and Godzilla reaches meltdown. After Legendary Godzilla is defeated, the game's final cutscene will be triggered. If playing through God of Destruction mode as the Legendary Godzilla, the incarnations switch places and Burning Godzilla is the final boss. In the PS4 edition, all the characters are playable, so players can choose any monster of their liking.

Golf Zero	The game tasks the player with avoiding hazards, jumping across chasms and staying alive like any platformer. However, the player has to golf a ball into the hole at the end of the level to complete it (instead of making it to the end alive). Balloons are also present in some levels, which need to be popped with a golf ball to receive the Gold Medal. Some levels also need to be completed within a time limit to receive the Gold Medal.  The player is given three shots to get one ball into the hole.

The Golf Club	It is the first installment of the PGA Tour 2K series, published by 2K. A sequel was released in 2017.

The Golf Club 2	The Golf Club 2 received "mixed or average reviews" for Xbox One and "generally favorable reviews" for PlayStation 4, according to review aggregator Metacritic.

The Golf Club 2019 featuring PGA Tour	It is the third installment of the PGA Tour 2K series, the first in the overall series to be licensed by the PGA Tour and the final game in the series to be released under The Golf Club name.

Golf with Your Friends	Golf with Your Friends is a golf video game by Australian developer Blacklight Interactive and published by Team17. The game started in early access on Steam on 30 January 2016 and fully released on 19 May 2020 for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and on Google Stadia on 14 April 2022.

Gone Home	Gone Home is a first-person exploration video game developed and published by The Fullbright Company. Gone Home was first released for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux computers in August 2013, followed by console releases for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in January 2016, the Nintendo Switch in September 2018, and iOS in December 2018.

Gonner	Gonner (stylized as GoNNER) is a roguelike video game developed by Art in Heart and published by Raw Fury. It was released on October 12, 2016 for Microsoft Windows, macOS and Linux. A Nintendo Switch version of the game was scheduled for release on June 8, 2017, but was delayed to June 29, 2017. The game has been described as a "shooter" version of Spelunky.

Gonner 2	Gonner (stylized as GoNNER) is a roguelike video game developed by Art in Heart and published by Raw Fury. It was released on October 12, 2016 for Microsoft Windows, macOS and Linux. A Nintendo Switch version of the game was scheduled for release on June 8, 2017, but was delayed to June 29, 2017. The game has been described as a "shooter" version of Spelunky.

Goodbye Deponia	Anti-hero Rufus still lives on the planet Deponia which is nothing more than a dump. He still wishes to become an inhabitant of Elysium, the flying city. Furthermore, he wants to stop the Organon. This military organization deceived the Elysian government by telling them Deponia is not inhabited any more and it would be better to blow up the planet. Rufus gets help from pirate Bozo, the Elysium girl Goal and the resistance.

Goodbye Volcano High	Goodbye Volcano High is a narrative adventure game by KO_OP. It was announced on June 11, 2020, and was released on August 29, 2023 for the PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, and Windows.

Goosebumps: The Game	Escape from Horrorland was released in 1996 on the PC. The game acts as a sequel to the Goosebumps book, One Day at HorrorLand. This game features well-known actors including Adam Wylie, Eric Lloyd, Isabella Rossellini and Jeff Goldblum. It was directed by Lawrence Guterman, who went on to direct Cats & Dogs (2001) and Son of the Mask (2005).

Graceful Explosion Machine	According to Metacritic, the Switch version received a 77/100 from 19 critics indicating "generally favorable reviews". Mitch Vogel of Nintendo Life gave the game a 9/10, calling it "an arcade shooter with a lot of style and a surprising amount of substance". He praised the weapons in the game, noting how each individual weapon's strengths and weaknesses encourage the player to use their full arsenal. He also noted the game's replay value and found it "incredibly satisfying" to return to previous levels to get a high score.

Granblue Fantasy: Relink	During their journey to find the mythical Astral realm of Estalucia, Captain and their crew consisting of Lyria, Vyrn, Katalina, Io, Rackam, Eugen, and Rosetta arrive at the Zegagrande Skydom aboard their airship, the Grandcypher. They are attacked by monsters shortly after arrival, forcing the Captain and Lyria to summon the primal dragon Bahamut to repel them. However, Lyria suddenly loses control of Bahamut and it begins attacking the ship, with the crew barely being able to subdue it. Lyria falls overboard due to the strain of getting Bahamut back under control, with the Captain and Vryn also going overboard to save her. They are rescued by the rest of the crew on the ground, and they make their way to the nearest village, Folca. As the Grandcypher undergoes repairs, the crew encounter the village's local priest and self proclaimed handyman, Rolan. 

Granblue Fantasy Versus	Granblue Fantasy Versus is a 2.5D fighting game developed by Arc System Works for the PlayStation 4. It is based on the role-playing video game Granblue Fantasy, and was released in Japan and Asia by Cygames and Sega, respectively on February 6, 2020, and in the west by Xseed Games and Marvelous Europe in March. A Windows version was released worldwide on March 13 in the same year. A sequel, Granblue Fantasy Versus: Rising, was released on December 14, 2023.

Granblue Fantasy Versus: Rising	Granblue Fantasy Versus: Rising introduces new mechanics to the game, including new Dash Attacks and an updated Auto Combo (now named as Triple Attack).

Grand Kingdom	Grand Kingdom is a tactical role-playing video game developed by Monochrome Corporation for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita. It was published by Spike Chunsoft in Japan in 2015, and NIS America in the West in 2016. Following a mercenary group in the employ of different nations formed in the wake of a collapsed empire, the player engages in turn-based combat while navigating paths on maps similar to a board game. Online competitive asynchronous multiplayer where chosen teams of characters fight for a chosen nation was originally featured, but this ended as servers were shut down by 2019 in the West and 2022 in Japan.

Grand Prix Story	Grand Prix Story is a management simulation video game, in which the player controls a new racing team. Players progress their team through races, which earn them money and unlocks longer and more difficult single race and grand prix events. As the game progresses, the terrain on which the cars race often changes, forcing the player to take into account varying road conditions and rain.

Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy  The Definitive Edition	Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy  The Definitive Edition is a 2021 compilation of three action-adventure games in the Grand Theft Auto series: Grand Theft Auto III (2001), Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (2002), and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (2004). Developed by Grove Street Games and published by Rockstar Games, all three games are remastered, with visual enhancements and gameplay upgrades. The games feature different protagonists and locations within the same continuity. Grand Theft Auto III follows silent protagonist Claude in Liberty City; Vice City, set in 1986, features ex-mobster Tommy Vercetti in the fictional Vice City; and San Andreas, set in 1992, follows gangster Carl "CJ" Johnson within the state of San Andreas.

Grand Theft Auto V	Grand Theft Auto V is a 2013 action-adventure game developed by Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games. It is the seventh main entry in the Grand Theft Auto series, following 2008's Grand Theft Auto IV, and the fifteenth instalment overall. Set within the fictional state of San Andreas, based on Southern California, the single-player story follows three protagonistsretired bank robber Michael De Santa (Ned Luke), street gangster Franklin Clinton (Shawn Fonteno), and drug dealer and gunrunner Trevor Philips (Steven Ogg), and their attempts to commit heists while under pressure from a corrupt government agency and powerful criminals. Players freely roam San Andreas's open world countryside and fictional city of Los Santos, based on Los Angeles.

Gran Turismo 7	Gran Turismo 7 is a 2022 racing simulation game developed by Polyphony Digital and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The game is the eighth main installment and the thirteenth overall in the Gran Turismo series. It was released for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5 on March 4, 2022, making it the first multi-console installment in the series. It also features virtual reality support compatible with PlayStation VR2 through a free in-game update.

Gran Turismo Sport	One of Gran Turismo Sport's main focuses is competitive online racing, supported by the international governing body of motorsport, the Fdration Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), and serving as the platform for the FIA-Certified Gran Turismo Championships. The game launched with 168 cars and 29 tracks; post-launch game updates have brought the count to 338 cars and 82 track configurations as of July 2021. The free updates also added a more traditional single-player campaign mode to the game. The game sold 12.977 million, making it the second highest selling game in the franchise. 

Gravel	The game revolves around competing in a racing television program called Off-Road Masters. Each player must earn stars to move on to the next challenge. 

Graven	Graven is a 2024 dark fantasy first-person shooter video game developed by Slipgate Ironworks and published by 3D Realms and Fulqrum Publishing. Often described as a spiritual successor to Hexen II, Graven incorporates elements of the action role-playing game and immersive sim genres to create an "action-adventure puzzler".

Graveyard Keeper	Graveyard Keeper is a graveyard-themed management simulation video game developed by independent Russian indie game studio Lazy Bear Games and published by tinyBuild. The game's alpha version was released for Microsoft Windows in May 2018, followed by the regular release for Windows and Xbox One later that year. Versions for the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 were released on June 27, 2019. It was released in Japan on February 6, 2020.

Gravity Ghost: Deluxe Edition	Iona, a young girl, lives happily with her three sisters, mother and father in a secluded island community. Iona's oldest sister, Hickory, is in a relationship with another resident of the island, a young man named Arthur. The two want to get married, but Hickory plans to pursue an education in astronomy before settling down. One day, when Iona's youngest sister, Pepper, playfully wanders out of bounds through a hole in a fence, she unknowingly ingests a poisoned mushroom. Unable to find an antidote on the island, Iona's parents rush to the mainland through a stormy night, tasking Arthur to maintain the lighthouse light for their return later in the night. As Arthur waits at the top of the lighthouse, lightning strikes it, shattering the lens, incapacitating Arthur and dooming Iona's parents to crash.

Gravity Rush Remastered	Gravity Rush, known in Japan as Gravity Daze, is a 2012 action-adventure video game developed by Japan Studio's Team Gravity division and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation Vita. Gravity Rush Remastered, a high definition remaster developed by Bluepoint Games for the PlayStation 4 was released in 2015 in Japan and 2016 in the West. In Gravity Rush, players control Kat, an amnesiac with the power to manipulate how gravity affects her, and uses her powers to help the people of Hekseville against the mysterious Nevi, helping its people against threats and uncovering the mystery behind her past. Gameplay has Kat exploring the open world of Hekseville, completing missions for townsfolk and defeating Nevi. Navigation and combat heavily involve Kat's gravity-altering abilities.

Gravity Rush 2	Gravity Rush 2, known in Japan as Gravity Daze 2, is a 2017 action-adventure game developed by Japan Studio's Team Gravity division and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The sequel to Gravity Rush, the game was released for the PlayStation 4 in January 2017. Directed by Keiichiro Toyama, the core mechanic of the game is the player's ability to manipulate gravity, allowing unique movements and navigation. The game follows Kat, a gravity-shifting teenage girl and super-heroine, after she is drawn from her home of Hekseville into another universe and must liberate the citizens of Jirga Para Lhao from its evil rulers.

The Great Ace Attorney Chronicles	Head localiser Janet Hsu approached the localisation of The Great Ace Attorney Chronicles primarily "as a story", like all other Ace Attorney titles. For The Great Ace Attorney Chronicles in particular, there was also a need for historical and cultural background research on which to base the translation. They wanted to preserve the period feel of the setting. An example of these extra considerations is the Court Record subtitle system where, in an effort to preserve the flavour of the Meiji Japan setting, she asked the programmers to create a new UI system with which she could add subtitles to pieces of evidence instead of redoing the textures in English.

GreedFall	GreedFall was met with a mixed, but generally positive critical reception. A prequel is in development.

Green Hell	Green Hell is a 2019 survival video game by Creepy Jar. The game takes place in the Amazon rainforest and was released for Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One.

Grid	Grid is a 2019 racing video game developed and published by Codemasters for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in October 2019, and for Stadia and Amazon Luna in November 2019 and October 2020 as a launch title for each system, respectively. It is the fourth title in the Grid series. A sequel, Grid Legends, was released on February 25, 2022.

Grid Legends	Grid Legends is a 2022 racing video game developed by Codemasters and published by Electronic Arts. It is the fifth instalment in the Grid franchise. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S on February 25, 2022. On January 12, 2023, the game was released for Meta Quest 2.

Griftlands	Griftlands is a roguelike deck-building game with elements of role-playing and digital card games. The player starts a game by selecting one of the predefined characters, each a mercenary seeking fame and fortune in on a planetary world that is home to an antagonistic peacekeeper body, pirates, and dangerous creatures. While the layout of the world is the same each game, the events, missions, and other elements within it are procedurally generated on starting a new game.

Grim Fandango Remastered	Grim Fandango is a 1998 adventure game directed by Tim Schafer and developed and published by LucasArts for Microsoft Windows. It is the first adventure game by LucasArts to use 3D computer graphics overlaid on pre-rendered static backgrounds. As with other LucasArts adventure games, the player must converse with characters and examine, collect, and use objects to solve puzzles.

GrimGrimoire OnceMore	GrimGrimoire is a 2007 real-time strategy video game developed by Vanillaware and published by Nippon Ichi Software (Japan, North America) and Koei (Europe) for the PlayStation 2. A remaster, GrimGrimoire OnceMore was released in Japan on PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch in 2022 and worldwide, along with a PlayStation 5 version, in 2023. The story follows Lillet Blan, a trainee witch who is sent into a repeating cycle of five days after her school is attacked by an evil wizard seeking the hidden Philosopher's Stone. The player commands units called familiars, each having strengths and weaknesses against the other, with the goal of either destroying the opponent's bases or surviving waves of enemies.

Grip: Combat Racing	Grip is the spiritual successor to Rollcage, according to Rock, Paper, Shotgun.

Gris	Gris is a platform-adventure game by Spanish developer Nomada Studio and published by Devolver Digital. The game was released for macOS, Nintendo Switch, and Windows in December 2018, for iOS in August 2019, for PlayStation 4 in November 2019, for Android in April 2020, for Amazon Luna in November 2021, and for PlayStation 5, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S in December 2022. The game has sold over 1 million copies.

Grow Home	Grow Home is an adventure platform video game developed by Ubisoft Reflections and published by Ubisoft. It was released for Microsoft Windows on February 4, 2015, and for PlayStation 4 on September 1, 2015. The game follows a robot named B.U.D., who is tasked with growing a plant that will oxygenate its home planet. Players explore an open world, moving B.U.D. and individually using each of its arms to climb and interact with objects.

Grow Up	Grow Up is an open world adventure platform video game developed by Ubisoft Reflections and published by Ubisoft. The game, which is the sequel to 2015's Grow Home, was released on 16 August 2016 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One.

Guacamelee! Super Turbo Championship Edition	Guacamelee! is a Metroidvania action platforming video game developed and published by DrinkBox Studios, initially launched in April 2013 for platforms PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita and was later ported to Windows in August and to OS X and Linux in February 2014. The enhanced Super Turbo Championship Edition was released for Wii U, Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Xbox 360 in July 2014 and later on the Nintendo Switch in October 2018. The game is inspired by traditional Mexican culture and folklore, like alebrijes and Day of the Dead.

Guacamelee! 2	Guacamelee! 2 is a Metroidvania platform video game developed and published by DrinkBox Studios. A sequel to Guacamelee!, the game was released for PlayStation 4 and Windows in August 2018 while the Nintendo Switch version was released on December 10. The Xbox One version was released on January 18, 2019. The game received generally positive reviews upon release.

Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy	Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy is a 2021 action-adventure game developed by Eidos-Montral and originally published by Square Enix. Set in an original universe based on the Marvel Comics superhero team Guardians of the Galaxy, the game's plot follows the Guardians who, while attempting to capture a beast for a wealthy collector, inadvertently trigger a catastrophe which threatens the peace of the galaxy. The player controls the team's self-proclaimed leader, Star-Lord, and issues commands to other Guardians including Drax the Destroyer, Gamora, Rocket Raccoon and Groot. At certain points in the game, the player makes key decisions via dialogue trees that affect the relationships between Guardians and change the outcome of missions.

Guardians of the Galaxy: The Telltale Series	Guardians of the Galaxy: The Telltale Series is an episodic graphic adventure video game series developed and published by Telltale Games. Based on Marvel Comics' Guardians of the Galaxy comic book series, the game's first episode was released on April 18, 2017.

Guilty Gear	Devised by Ishiwatari, it spent a year and a half in production, with influences from Street Fighter and manga. After its original release, it was brought to both North America, and Europe and the PAL region, and achieved a cult status among fans. It has received favorable critical reception, with praise towards its characters' roster, 2D graphics and fast gameplay that differentiates it from other games of the same genre. It has been labeled as one of few games of its era to cause a lasting impact on the genre, alongside the hegemonic Capcom and SNK games. However, it received criticism due to its difficulty and unbalanced set of characters.

Guilty Gear Strive	Guilty Gear Strive received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised its visuals, gameplay and netcode, and has sold over 2.5 million units as of August 2023.

Guilty Gear Xrd: Revelator	The first Xrd game, Guilty Gear Xrd Sign, was released in arcades on February 20, 2014, as the 5th main installment, and for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 in Japan and North America in December of the same year. A digital-only release happened in Europe in June 2015, and it was brought to Microsoft Windows via Steam on December 9, 2015. The game has been praised for its cel-shaded graphics and approachable gameplay, but criticized for its non-interactive story mode and smaller roster of characters.

Guilty Gear Xrd: Sign	The first Xrd game, Guilty Gear Xrd Sign, was released in arcades on February 20, 2014, as the 5th main installment, and for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 in Japan and North America in December of the same year. A digital-only release happened in Europe in June 2015, and it was brought to Microsoft Windows via Steam on December 9, 2015. The game has been praised for its cel-shaded graphics and approachable gameplay, but criticized for its non-interactive story mode and smaller roster of characters.

Guitar Hero Live	Guitar Hero Live is a 2015 music rhythm video game developed by FreeStyleGames and published by Activision. It is the seventh and final main installment in the Guitar Hero series. The game was released for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Wii U, Xbox 360, and Xbox One in October 2015. As with previous games in the series, the goal is to use a special guitar controller to match fret patterns displayed on a scrolling note pattern on screen in time with the music.

Gunbird	When a player collides with the body of an enemy unit, the player loses a shot power level, and a power up flies around the screen and disappears as soon as it reaches the edge. If a player is at the lowest level of shot, the player loses a bomb instead.

Gunbird 2	There are seven stages in each game loop (two loops total). The first three stages are randomly chosen from possible four. At the second loop, enemies fire denser bullet patterns moving at faster speeds. Stage 2-1 takes place at the only stage not available in 1st loop, instead of the 1-1 counterpart. After completing the first loop with only one player, player can choose one of two choices for a wish with magic potion, with unique ending for each choice. If 1st loop is completed with two players, a combination-specific ending is played.

Gundam Breaker 3	The popularity of the Japanese anime metaseries Gundam since its release in 1979 has resulted in a spread of merchandise across various forms, with video games among them. 

Gundam Evolution	On July 19, Bandai Namco Entertainment announced that service for Gundam Evolution would end with the shutting down of the games servers on November 29, 2023.

Gundam Versus	The popularity of the Japanese anime metaseries Gundam since its release in 1979 has resulted in a spread of merchandise across various forms, with video games among them. 

Gungrave G.O.R.E.	Gungrave G.O.R.E is a 2022 third-person shooter video game developed by Studio IGGYMOB and published by Prime Matter.  It is the sequel to Gungrave (2002), Gungrave: Overdose (2004), and Gungrave VR (2017). The game has received mixed reviews on launch. In 2023, it was released on Nintendo Switch as Gungrave G.O.R.E Ultimate Enhanced Edition, featuring over 100 changes to the base game. 

Gunlord X	Gunlord is a 2012 single-player run and gun video game developed and published by German indie NG:Dev.Team for the Neo Geo MVS. It is the first run and gun title from NG:Dev.Team and their third game overall. Taking place after the events of Last Hope, the player assume the role of Gordian Gaiden facing against an evil lord called "The Master" on planet Kairos II while searching for his wife Vanessa, who went missing after defeating the evil empire. Inspired by 16-bit titles such as Turrican, the game originally started development in 2003 but was postponed for various years until the project was resumed in 2010, lasting eighteen months in production.

Gunman Clive HD Collection	In 2015, a sequel, Gunman Clive 2, was released, in which Clive must save the world from the group of bandits from the previous game.

Guns of Icarus Alliance	Guns of Icarus Online Version 1.0 officially went online on October 29, 2012. The improved Version 1.1 was first available through Steam on November 20 and online on November 23. In early 2013, Linux support was added. A PlayStation 4 version launched May 1, 2018 with full cross-platform support.

Gunvolt Chronicles: Luminous Avenger iX	Set in a futuristic world in which beings known as adepts coexist with humanity, the game follows a powerful adept named Gunvolt, who upon following a botched assassin attempt, leaves the organization that he works for to become a freelance agent. Across the game, Gunvolt attempts to use his adept powers to dismantle the Sumeragi Group, a peace-keeping cooperation who in turn, is secretly responsible abusing countless adepts. 

.hack//G.U. Last Recode	.hack//G.U. is a series of single-player action role-playing games for the PlayStation 2, developed by CyberConnect2 and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment between 2006 and 2007. The series contains three games: .hack//G.U. Vol. 1//Rebirth, .hack//G.U. Vol. 2//Reminisce and .hack//G.U. Vol. 3//Redemption. As in the previous .hack games, .hack//G.U. simulates a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) called The Worldthe player controls a character who plays the fictional online game. They were directed by Hiroshi Matsuyama who aimed to address criticisms of the previous series. Its narrative, by Tatsuya Hamazaki, was written concurrently with .hack//Roots, an anime set before the events of the games.

Hakoniwa Company Works	Hakoniwa Company Works takes place in Cloud's End, a world where countless islands float in the sky. The protagonist becomes the leader of a company that connects the islands and takes on requests. The protagonist is supported by Meme Kazamidori, a cheerful girl who used to work for a famous company.

Hammerwatch	Hammerwatch is a 2013 hack and slash and action-adventure game by Swedish studio Crackshell. It was released for Linux, Microsoft Windows and OS X in August 2013, followed by released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in December 2017. It was followed by Heroes of Hammerwatch and Hammerwatch 2.

Hand of Fate	Hand of Fate has the player work their way through randomized dungeons, generated by cards selected from customizable decks, to try to reach a final boss of each dungeon. Most of the game is played through an in-game tabletop tableau, with the player's actions narrated and executed by the mysterious Dealer, at times requiring the player to make choices to proceed. When combat occurs, the game switches to a third-person perspective brawler-style game, requiring the player to time attacks, blocks, dodges, and other abilities to defeat enemies without losing all their health. As the player progresses, they can earn tokens, which, upon completion of a dungeon (successfully or not), gain them additional cards that they can use to customize their decks for the next dungeon run.

Hand of Fate 2	Players progress through an overworld consisting of twenty-two levels, each of which has different goals.  Each level must be cleared by facing challenges posed by cards dealt by the Dealer, a mysterious antagonist.  Players also have their own deck of cards, as in deck-building games.  Players can augment their decks with recruited companions, each of whom has their own story and associated quests.  When cards indicate combat, players engage in third-person action sequences, as in action role-playing games.  If players die, they must start the level over from the beginning.

Hard Reset Redux	Hard Reset is a 2011 first-person shooter game developed by Flying Wild Hog and released for Windows in September 2011. The game features a cyberpunk plot within a dystopian world, and draws inspiration from the works of William Gibson, Neal Stephenson, and Philip K. Dick to create its story, setting and atmosphere. 

Hard West: Ultimate Edition	Hard West is a turn-based tactical game developed by CreativeForge Games and published by Gambitious Digital Entertainment. It was released digitally on November 18, 2015, for Microsoft Windows, OS X and Linux, and was released for the Nintendo Switch on March 7, 2019. A sequel, Hard West 2, was released in August 2022.

Hardware: Rivals	Hardware: Rivals was an online multiplayer vehicular combat game developed by SCE Connected Content Group and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It was the successor to the 2002 PlayStation 2 game, Hardware: Online Arena.

Harvest Moon: Light of Hope	The setting is in a harbor town, with the goal being to revive the lighthouse. As in most Harvest Moon games, players are able to grow crops and raise livestock. Additionally, the player is also able to get married, have a child, buy animals and help villagers with requests.

Harvest Moon: Mad Dash	Harvest Moon is a farm simulation role-playing video game series published by Natsume Inc. The main objective of the games is to rebuild a run-down old farm and turn it into a successful one.

Harvest Moon: One World	Harvest Moon is a farm simulation role-playing video game series published by Natsume Inc. The main objective of the games is to rebuild a run-down old farm and turn it into a successful one.

Has-Been Heroes	Has-Been Heroes is an action video game developed by Frozenbyte and published by GameTrust. The game was released on 28 March 2017 in North America and in Europe and Australia on 4 April 2017 on Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Microsoft Windows, and Xbox One. This game is Gamestop exclusive and was only sold through Gamestop stores at launch.

Hatoful Boyfriend	Hatoful Boyfriend: A School of Hope and White Wings (Japanese:  , Hepburn: Htofuru kareshi ~kib no gakuen to shiroi tsubasa~) is a Japanese djin soft otome visual novel released in 2011 for Microsoft Windows and OS X, in which all the characters other than the protagonist are sentient birds. It was developed by manga artist Hato Moa's djin circle PigeoNation Inc., and is the successor of a Flash game of the same name she created for April Fools' Day in 2011.

Hatsune Miku: Project Diva Future Tone	Hatsune Miku: Project DIVA Arcade ( Project DIVA Arcade) is a 2010 arcade rhythm game created by Sega and Crypton Future Media for arcade machines. The game is a port of the 2009 video game, Hatsune Miku: Project DIVA, with updated visuals and was released on June 23, 2010 in Japan with limited international release in countries such as Singapore. Like the original the game primarily makes use of Vocaloids, a series of singing synthesizer software, and the songs created using these Vocaloids, most notably, the virtual diva Hatsune Miku.

Hatsune Miku: Project Diva X	The game was publicly announced on August 31, 2015 via a video preview.

Haven	Haven is a third-person role-playing game with survival game elements. The game is about two lovers, Yu and Kay, who escape to an uninhabited lost planet called Source. The player can control either character, or play in co-op multiplayer with another person, as they search for materials and resources for the Nest, their spaceship. The two protagonists are equipped with a pair of anti-gravity boots, which are used to navigate the world and glide on "flow threads". Occasionally, players will face hostile rusted creatures. The game features real time combat, which requires the players to coordinate and utilize the skills of both Yu and Kay. At the Nest, players can craft new items, rest and heal, and cook food using the resources and ingredients collected in the world.

Headlander	Headlander takes place in a futuristic setting inspired by 1970s science fiction televisions shows and movies such as Logan's Run. In this future, humanity has opted to upload their consciousnesses to a world-encompassing cloud storage, forgoing their bodies but able to occupy the minds of robots as to carry out necessary tasks or otherwise enjoy corporeal pleasures. However, an artificial intelligence named Methuselah has taken control of the robots, trapping the human consciousnesses inside them, and enslaved them for some nefarious purpose. The last human is awoken from cryogenic storage to deal with Methuselah, but only their head has managed to survive the process and is suffering from amnesia.

Heaven's Vault	In Heaven's Vault, the player takes the role of an archaeologist called Aliya Elasra who has a robotic companion called Six. The game follows the course of their adventure as they 'sail' between the moons of the Nebula searching for a missing roboticist called Janniqi Renba.

Heavy Rain	Heavy Rain is a 2010 action-adventure video game developed by Quantic Dream and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. The game features four protagonists involved with the mystery of the Origami Killer, a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims. The player interacts with the game by performing actions highlighted on screen related to motions on the controller, and in some cases, performing a series of quick time events. The player's choices and actions during the game affect the narrative.

Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice	Self-described as an "independent AAA game", Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice was created by a team of approximately twenty developers led by writer and director Tameem Antoniades. The game blends different gameplay mechanics and concepts like puzzle solving, psychological horror and melee combat. Voice acting is an integral part of the game, while its cutscenes combine motion capture by Melina Juergens, and live action performances by other actors. The game's narrative serves as a metaphor for the character's struggle with psychosis, as Senua, who suffers from the condition but believes it to be a curse, is haunted by an entity known as the "Darkness", voices in her head known as "Furies", and memories from her past. To properly represent psychosis, developers worked closely with neuroscientists, mental health specialists, and people living with the condition.

Helldivers	Helldivers has both couch and online co-op for up to four players. The game takes inspiration from military science fiction such as Aliens and Starship Troopers. Helldivers received positive reviews from critics. A sequel, Helldivers 2, was announced in May 2023 and was released on 8 February 2024.

Hellpoint	Hellpoint is a 2020 action role-playing game developed by Cradle Games and published by tinyBuild. It released for Windows, Linux, MacOS, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on July 30. The player takes on the role of a nameless humanoid stranded on derelict space station Irid Novo, and must battle vicious creatures in order to solve the mystery behind the events that happened there. Irid Novo orbits a massive black hole; the station's position in relation to the black hole affects the strength of enemies. Versions for Stadia and Nintendo Switch were released in February 2021, with PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S versions released in July 2022.

Her Majesty's Spiffing	Her Majesty's SPIFFING (also known as Her Majesty's SPIFFING: The Empire Staggers Back) is an adventure video game developed and published by Billy Goat Entertainment Ltd. It was released worldwide for the Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Windows, and PCs running Linux on 7 December 2016. The game is set after the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union and the queen's use of the royal prerogative to take control over the country herself and the subsequent set up of a space organisation called SPIFFING. The plot follows Captain Frank Lee English and his Welsh subordinate Aled Jones in their attempts to establish a galactic British Empire.

Hero Must Die. Again	The concept of Hero Must Die was developed by its scenario writer and designer Shoji Masuda based on his experiences of watching his father deteriorate from cirrhosis. The characters were designed by Shunya Yamashita, who both had creative freedom and was asked to adjust many of his designs. The music was composed by Kenji Ito, and was his first time working on a mobile game. The mobile version of the game stopped network distribution in 2012. The remake was announced in 2015, and included expanded content, new characters, and redone environments. Reception of both versions of the game has been positive.

H-Hour: World's Elite	Initial development was mostly funded by $252,500 from a successful Kickstarter campaign in July 2013.

Hidden Agenda	Hidden Agenda is a 2017 action-adventure game developed by Supermassive Games and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. It was released on 24 October 2017 for PlayStation 4.

Hitman	Hitman is a 2016 stealth video game developed by IO Interactive and published by Square Enix. The game, which has six episodes, is the sixth mainline entry in the Hitman franchise, the first installment of the World of Assassination trilogy, and the successor to Hitman: Absolution (2012). The single-player story follows genetically engineered assassin Agent 47 as he goes on a worldwide adventure and solves a mysterious series of seemingly unconnected assassinations. Hitman features a number of large, open-ended sandboxes that Agent 47 can freely explore. The game presents the player with various assassination opportunities, many of which are unconventional. IO Interactive introduced a "live component" to the game with new content being regularly delivered in downloadable form.

Hitman 2	Hitman 2  is a 2018 stealth video game developed by IO Interactive. It is the seventh main installment in the Hitman video game series, the sequel to 2016's Hitman and the second game in the World of Assassination trilogy. The game continues the story arc started in Hitman, following genetically engineered assassin Agent 47 as he searches for the mysterious "Shadow Client" who is trying to destroy Providence, a secretive organization that controls global affairs. It also explores more of 47's mysterious background, which Providence offered to bring to light in exchange for 47's assistance. Like its predecessor, the game is structured around six large sandbox locations that players can freely explore to find opportunities to eliminate their targets. It also included two online multiplayer modes called Sniper Assassin and Ghost Mode, though the game's servers for both modes have since been shut down; Sniper Assassin can still be played single-player.

Hitman Go	Hitman Go is a turn-based puzzle video game developed by Square Enix Montral and published by Square Enix's European subsidiary. Announced in February 2014, the game was released for iOS in April 2014 and for Android in June 2014. Windows and Windows Phone versions were released the following year in April 2015. In February 2016, a "Definitive Edition" version was released on PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and on Linux and Windows via Steam. It is the first game developed by Square Enix Montral, a studio founded in 2011. Development entered full production in 2013 and was completed by eleven people using the Unity game engine.

Hob	Hob's gameplay centers around two main components: exploration and combat.

Hogwarts Legacy	Hogwarts Legacy is a 2023 action role-playing game developed by Avalanche Software and published by Warner Bros. Games under its Portkey Games label. The game is part of the Wizarding World franchise, taking place a century prior to the events chronicled in the Harry Potter novels. The player controls a student enrolled in the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry who learns to wield an array of magical abilities and objects. With the assistance of fellow students and professors, the protagonist embarks on a journey to unearth an ancient secret concealed within the wizarding world.

Hohokum	Hohokum is a 2014 art video game developed by Honeyslug and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation Vita, and by Annapurna Interactive for Microsoft Windows. The player controls a snake-like creature to explore 17 whimsical worlds with no set objectives. The developers, who began development in 2008, compared the concept to flying a kite and were inspired by free London museums, Portmeirion, and indigenous cultures. It was released on August 12, 2014, and features a soundtrack by Ghostly International artists. The game received "generally favorable reviews", according to video game review score aggregator Metacritic. Critics appreciated the game's presentation, including its art and music, but felt that the gameplay turned to drudgery towards its end and that the objectives were too vague.

Hollow Knight	Hollow Knight is a 2017 Metroidvania video game developed and published by independent developer Team Cherry. The player controls the Knight, an insectoid warrior exploring Hallownest, a fallen kingdom plagued by a supernatural disease. The game is set in diverse subterranean locations, featuring friendly and hostile insectoid characters and numerous bosses. Players have the opportunity to unlock new abilities as they explore each location, along with pieces of lore and flavour text that are spread throughout the kingdom.

Homefront: The Revolution	Homefront: The Revolution is a first-person shooter video game developed by Dambuster Studios. The game was published by Deep Silver for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in May 2016. It is the reboot/sequel to Homefront. Homefront: The Revolution takes place in 2029 in an alternate timeline, following the protagonist Ethan Brady as he joins a resistance movement against the army of a North Korean occupation in the city of Philadelphia.

The Hong Kong Massacre	The Hong Kong Massacre is a top-down shooter video game developed and published by Vreski for Microsoft Windows and PlayStation 4 in January 2019, and for Nintendo Switch in December 2020. It is the first game to be developed by the studio. Set in 1990s Hong Kong, the game follows a former police detective as he sets out to exact revenge against the Triad for the death of his partner.

Hood: Outlaws & Legends	Hood: Outlaws & Legends is a multiplayer action video game played from a third-person perspective. The player assumes control of an outlaw who must infiltrate a keep of an authoritarian power named the State, and compete against a rival team to steal the treasure hidden in the keep's vault. The player can form a group of four in order to pull off the heist, which has three phases. The first phase requires the player to steal the key from the Sheriff of Nottingham, a boss character in the game. Once the player acquires the key, they are given clues regarding the location of the vault, though the opponent team would also be notified. Stealth is essential, as guards may call for reinforcements and close off certain areas, blocking access to the vault. The opponent team can also observe the behaviors of the AI and pinpoint the location of the opposite team.

Horizon Chase Turbo	Horizon Chase is a racing video game developed and published by Brazilian-based Aquiris Game Studio. It was released on August 20, 2015, for iOS and Android platforms. It is a 3D game inspired by 2D, 16-bit titles. Its soundtrack has Nintendocore influences.

Horizon Forbidden West	Horizon Forbidden West is a 2022 action role-playing game  developed by Guerrilla Games and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The game was released for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5 on 18 February 2022.

Horizon Zero Dawn	Horizon Zero Dawn is a 2017 action role-playing game  developed by Guerrilla Games and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The game was released for PlayStation 4 in 2017 and Windows in 2020.

Hotel Transylvania 3: Monsters Overboard	Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation (released internationally as Hotel Transylvania 3: A Monster Vacation or simply Hotel Transylvania 3 as marketed on home release) is a 2018 American animated monster comedy film produced by Sony Pictures Animation and distributed by Sony Pictures Releasing. It is the third installment in the Hotel Transylvania franchise and the sequel to Hotel Transylvania 2 (2015), it was directed by Genndy Tartakovsky, written by Tartakovsky and Michael McCullers, and features Adam Sandler, Andy Samberg, Selena Gomez, Kevin James, Fran Drescher, Steve Buscemi, Molly Shannon, Sadie Sandler, David Spade, Keegan-Michael Key, Asher Blinkoff and Mel Brooks reprising their roles, with new additions to the cast including Jim Gaffigan, Kathryn Hahn, Joe Jonas, Chrissy Teigen, Joe Whyte, Tara Strong and Tartakovsky, while Chris Parnell, who voiced The Fly in the first two films, voices Stan. In the film, Dracula finds love with a ship captain named Ericka while embarks on a vacation on a luxury cruise liner with his family and friends, but Mavis later discovers that Ericka is actually the great-granddaughter of Abraham Van Helsing, Drac's arch-nemesis who secretly plan to destroy them.

Hotline Miami	Hotline Miami is a 2012 top-down shooter game developed by Dennaton Games and published by Devolver Digital for Windows. The game is set in 1989 Miami, and revolves primarily around an unnamed silent protagonistdubbed "Jacket" by fansreceiving coded messages on his answering machine instructing him to commit massacres against the local Russian mafia. The gameplay blends a top-down perspective with stealth, and the story features extreme violence and surreal storytelling, along with a soundtrack and visuals inspired by 1980s culture.

Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number	Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number is a 2015 top-down shooter video game co-developed by Dennaton Games and Abstraction Games, and published by Devolver Digital. The game takes place before, during, and after the events of Hotline Miami, with the majority of it focusing on the aftermath of the massacres committed against the Russian mafia in Miami by the previous game's protagonist, Jacket. The player takes on the role of several different characters throughout the game, witnessing the events from different perspectives across the United States. In each level of the game, the player is tasked with defeating every enemy through any means possible. In the version of the game released on Steam, the player has access to a level editor, allowing them to create their own levels and share them.

Hot Springs Story	Hot Springs Story focuses on a hot spring resort business, where it is the player's job to expand the resort and to juggle the needs of customers. In order to attract more wealthy clientele, the player must impress guidebook writers who will increase the rating of the establishment. The player must juggle advertising, construction, and using booster items on specific rooms to increase their desirability for customers, all while managing the staff and a number of different issues.

Hotshot Racing	Sumo Digital Ltd. is a British video game developer based in Sheffield and the principal subsidiary of Sumo Group since 2017. The company was founded in 2003 by four former members of the management team of Infogrames Studios and, as of 2023, employs more than 1100 people in 16 studios. The developer's model has been described as work for hire.

Hot Wheels Unleashed	Hot Wheels Unleashed is a racing game played from a third-person perspective. In the game, the player assumes control of vehicles from the Hot Wheels franchise, and races against other opponents in miniature tracks set in various everyday locations and environments, such as a garage, kitchen, and bedroom. The vehicles featured in the game can be extensively customized. Sixty-six different cars were available at launch. The game also features a career mode, a time trial, and a track editor. The game supports up to 12 players in an online session, though players can also compete with another player in a local split-screen multiplayer mode. Players had the opportunity to submit their car designs in the Hot Wheels Unleashed Design Battle and the winning design was used to create a Hot Wheels toy available for purchase in December 2022.

House Flipper	House Flipper is a simulation game developed by Empyrean and published by Frozen District and PlayWay for macOS, Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch. It was initially released on 17 May 2018. A mobile version, entitled House Flipper: Home Design, was released for Android and iOS in October 2020.  A sequel, House Flipper 2, was released in December 2023.

The House in Fata Morgana: Dream of the Revenants Edition	The House in Fata Morgana is a visual novel set in a mansion, where a spirit appears with amnesia. It meets a Maid in the mansion, and the two view the mansion's past in different time periods  1603, 1707, 1869 and 1099  to learn what has happened to its residents and to try to get the spirit to regain its lost memories.

The House of the Dead: Remake	The House of the Dead is a 1996 horror-themed light gun shooter arcade game developed by Sega AM1 and released by Sega. It is the first game in the House of the Dead series. Players assume the role of agents Thomas Rogan and "G" as they combat an army of undead experiments created by Dr. Curien, a mad scientist.

How to Survive: Storm Warning Edition	How to Survive is played from a top-down perspective. There are two game modes, story and challenge, and both can be played with up to two players. Challenge mode puts the player(s) on one side of the island, and they must get to the other side, where their getaway vehicle awaits. The player's mission is to gather materials, craft weapons, and make it off the island without dying. Neither challenge or story are timed, and therefore, the player can take as long as they want.

How to Survive 2	How to Survive is played from a top-down perspective. There are two game modes, story and challenge, and both can be played with up to two players. Challenge mode puts the player(s) on one side of the island, and they must get to the other side, where their getaway vehicle awaits. The player's mission is to gather materials, craft weapons, and make it off the island without dying. Neither challenge or story are timed, and therefore, the player can take as long as they want.

How To Take Off Your Mask Remastered	As it is a visual novel series, the player reads through the story and makes choices at crucial points to change the outcome, leading to different endings. The games are divided into several chapters and depending on the choices, the player will follow a different route. In each game, the player takes control of a different female protagonist and can fall in love with one of the male love interests.

Hue	Hue is a 2016 puzzle-platform game developed by Fiddlesticks and published by Curve Digital. The game was released on August 30, 2016, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One; on November 29, 2016, for the PlayStation Vita; and on June 6, 2019, for Nintendo Switch. There were further releases for iOS on January 25, 2020 and Android on April 22, 2020.

Human: Fall Flat	Human: Fall Flat is a puzzle-platform game developed by No Brakes Games and published by Curve Digital. It was initially released for Microsoft Windows, macOS, and Linux in July 2016, and received ports for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, Nintendo Switch, Google Stadia, and iOS and Android over the next several years.

Hunt: Showdown	Hunt: Showdown is a  first-person shooter video game by Crytek. It was launched on Steam in early access on 22 February 2018 and for Xbox Game Preview on 29 May 2019. The full release of the game launched on 27 August 2019 for Microsoft Windows, it was also released on Xbox One on 19 September 2019 and PlayStation 4 on 18 February 2020. In the game, the player assumes the role of a bounty hunter who tries to kill mythical monsters in order to claim their bounties and survive long enough against other bounty hunters to reach an extraction point.

Hyper Light Drifter	The game pays homage to 8-bit and 16-bit games, and is considered by its lead developer Alx Preston as a combination of The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past and Diablo. Preston originally launched Kickstarter funding for the title for approximately US$27,000 to develop the title for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux computers, but ended up with more than US$600,000, allowing him to hire more programmers and artists, and expanding the title for console and portable platforms through stretch goals. Though originally scoped for release in 2014, various improvements in the game and issues with Preston's health set the release back. 

Hyper Void	Hyper Void is a 3D tube shooter. the RM-24, a combat space ship armed with 3 different weapons that can be fired simultaneously and are assigned to three different buttons. The weapons vary in damage, rate of fire and bullet speed and all of them consume energy from a shared power source that recharges over time, requiring the player to think and aim rather than just hold the fire button indefinitely.

HyperParasite	HyperParasite is a roguelike shooter video game developed and published by Troglobytes Games. Early prototypes of the game were distributed through Steam's early access program in 2019. The game was released on 3 April 2020 for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, which was followed by a physical release for the Switch on 19 February 2021. The game received generally positive reviews, earning praise for its uniqueness and design and criticism for its difficulty.

Hypnospace Outlaw	Hypnospace Outlaw is a 2019 simulation video game developed by Tendershoot and published by No More Robots. Set in an alternate history 1999, the game takes place inside a parody of the early Internet and its culture that users visit in their sleep called Hypnospace. The player assumes the role of an "Enforcer" for the fictional company Merchantsoftcreator of Hypnospaceand seeks to police illegal content, copyright violations, viruses, and cyberbullying by users on the service. In the process, the player engages in detective work and puzzle-solving. It was released for Windows, macOS, and Linux in March 2019 and for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in August 2020.

I Am Bread	I Am Bread is a platform video game published by Bossa Studios on 9 April 2015. The game is available for Microsoft Windows, OS X, iOS, PlayStation 4, Ouya, Xbox One, and Android. It was removed from Google Play at an Jan 2020. The gameplay involves using various abilities, such as sticking to surfaces to solve puzzles and reach the toaster. Along the way, players must avoid hazards like dirty floors, knives, and pets.

I Am Dead	I Am Dead was met by generally positive reviews, according to the review aggregator Metacritic.

I Am Setsuna	The debut project of Tokyo RPG Factory, I Am Setsuna began production in 2014 with a short production schedule. In keeping with the studio's goal, the team took mechanical inspiration from Chrono Trigger (1995). Using the visual theme of snow, the narrative was written to explore the theme of sadness. The music, composed by Tomoki Miyoshi, was performed almost exclusively on piano by Randy Kerber. It released to strong sales, eventually allowing the developer to make a profit, and was positively received by critics. Praise went to its atmosphere, soundtrack and gameplay, though several faulted the lack of aesthetic variety and low difficulty.

Ice Age: Scrat's Nutty Adventure	The game follows Scrat continuing to chase the same goal as in the films, to get The Acorn. While pursuing The Acorn, he falls into a Scratazon Temple, where the Acorn is entombed in an offering spot. To get The Acorn, Scrat must seek four legendary Crystal Nuts from across the world of Ice Age.

Icewind Dale: Enhanced Edition	Icewind Dale: Enhanced Edition is a remake of the Black Isle Studios 2000 role-playing video game Icewind Dale and its expansions Icewind Dale: Heart of Winter and Trials of the Luremaster. Enhanced Edition was developed by Overhaul Games, a division of Beamdog, and published by Atari  for Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, iOS, and Android.

Icey	The game revolves around Icey, a female cyborg who is on a mission to kill the evil Judas, who has supposedly destroyed the world, for unclear reasons. She fights against various small and large robotic enemies. However, if the player strays outside the directions given to them by the narrator, he becomes frustrated and even angry. At this point the game devolves into a meta-commentary on game development, with the game's developer even talking directly to the player.

Iconoclasts	Iconoclasts is a 2D platformer with metroidvania elements. Gameplay involves a mixture of exploring, fighting enemies, and solving environmental puzzles using Robin's tools. The game has a plot that plays out as the player completes levels. The game places a lot of emphasis on boss battles, and there are well over twenty different bosses in the game.

The Idolmaster Platinum Stars	The player acts as a producer in 765 Production. Unlike previous works in the Idolmaster series, the storyline is reconstructed and has no connection with other works. However, the idols' personalities and looks remain unchanged.

The Idolmaster: Starlit Season	The central aspect of the plot for The Idolmaster deals with the training of prospective pop idols on their way to stardom. The main talent agency featured in the series is 765 Production (765 Pro), a rising studio located in a small office. Other studios include 876 Production (876 Pro), 961 Production (961 Pro), 346 Production (346 Pro), 315 Production (315 Pro) and 283 Production (283 Pro). At 765 Pro, there are initially 10 idols the player can choose: Haruka Amami, Chihaya Kisaragi, Yukiho Hagiwara, Yayoi Takatsuki, Ritsuko Akizuki, Azusa Miura, Iori Minase, Makoto Kikuchi, and Ami and Mami Futami (who work as a pair). Three additional idols later added to 765 Pro include: Miki Hoshii, Hibiki Ganaha and Takane Shij.

The Idolmaster: Stella Stage	The central aspect of the plot for The Idolmaster deals with the training of prospective pop idols on their way to stardom. The main talent agency featured in the series is 765 Production (765 Pro), a rising studio located in a small office. Other studios include 876 Production (876 Pro), 961 Production (961 Pro), 346 Production (346 Pro), 315 Production (315 Pro) and 283 Production (283 Pro). At 765 Pro, there are initially 10 idols the player can choose: Haruka Amami, Chihaya Kisaragi, Yukiho Hagiwara, Yayoi Takatsuki, Ritsuko Akizuki, Azusa Miura, Iori Minase, Makoto Kikuchi, and Ami and Mami Futami (who work as a pair). Three additional idols later added to 765 Pro include: Miki Hoshii, Hibiki Ganaha and Takane Shij.

Ikaruga	Ikaruga (Japanese: , lit.'Japanese Grosbeak') is a shoot 'em up developed by Treasure. It is the spiritual sequel to Radiant Silvergun (1998) and was originally released in Japanese arcades in December 2001. The story follows a rebel pilot named Shinra as he battles an enemy nation using a specially designed fighter called the Ikaruga which can flip between two polarities, black and white. This polarity mechanism is the game's key feature and the foundation for its stage and enemy design. All enemies and bullets in the game are either black or white. Bullets which are the same color as the player are absorbed while the others will kill the player. The game features both single-player and cooperative modes.

Ikenfell	The tactical combat system involves players battling on an isometric grid, but also includes timing-based elements akin to the Paper Mario series. In the story, the player initially controls Maritte Hildegaard, a non-magical teenage girl who journeys to the titular magical school Ikenfell, in an attempt to investigate the disappearance of her witch sister Safina. While trying to enter the school, she suddenly gains magical powers, concurring with mysterious changes in magic that some link to the mysterious Dark Fold.

Immortal: Unchained	Immortal: Unchained is a third-person action game heavily inspired by the hardcore action role-playing game gameplay of the Dark Souls series, with a comparable difficulty level and many identical mechanics. The main deviation is the focus on firearms and gun combat instead of melee combat with medieval fantasy weaponry, although close combat weapons such as swords, axes, and clubs still exist in a more basic form. Enemies have critical hit locations (typically the head and a glowing weak point on their backs) which can be targeted for significantly increased damage.

Immortals Fenyx Rising	Immortals Fenyx Rising is a 2020 action-adventure video game developed by Ubisoft Quebec and published by Ubisoft. The game was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Stadia, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

Inazuma Eleven: Victory Road	A part of the Inazuma Eleven series, it was announced as Inazuma Eleven Ares in 2016 and was set to be released in 2018 before being delayed to sometime after May 2019. The game was renamed to Inazuma Eleven: Great Road of Heroes and delayed to 2020 in September 2019. It was delayed again to 2023 in April 2021. The game was retitled again to Inazuma Eleven: Victory Road of Heroes in July 2022 before being retitled once more to Inazuma Eleven: Victory Road in March 2023. The game was delayed yet again to 2024 at the end of November 2023.

The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing	The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing is an action role-playing video game developed and published by NeocoreGames. It was released on 22 May 2013. Based on the novel Dracula by Bram Stoker, the game focuses on the trials of young Van Helsing, son of the legendary vampire hunter Abraham Van Helsing from the book. The game is set in a gothic-noir 19th-century Eastern Europe and contains "intentionally anachronistic humor and gadgetry". A sequel, The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing II, was released on 22 May 2014. A second sequel, The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing III, was released on 22 May 2015.

The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing II	The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing is an action role-playing video game developed and published by NeocoreGames. It was released on 22 May 2013. Based on the novel Dracula by Bram Stoker, the game focuses on the trials of young Van Helsing, son of the legendary vampire hunter Abraham Van Helsing from the book. The game is set in a gothic-noir 19th-century Eastern Europe and contains "intentionally anachronistic humor and gadgetry". A sequel, The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing II, was released on 22 May 2014. A second sequel, The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing III, was released on 22 May 2015.

The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing III	The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing is an action role-playing video game developed and published by NeocoreGames. It was released on 22 May 2013. Based on the novel Dracula by Bram Stoker, the game focuses on the trials of young Van Helsing, son of the legendary vampire hunter Abraham Van Helsing from the book. The game is set in a gothic-noir 19th-century Eastern Europe and contains "intentionally anachronistic humor and gadgetry". A sequel, The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing II, was released on 22 May 2014. A second sequel, The Incredible Adventures of Van Helsing III, was released on 22 May 2015.

Industry Giant II	The game received a high-definition re-release in 2016.

Indivisible	Indivisible features platform-style action RPG exploration and combat mechanics inspired by Valkyrie Profile. The game focuses on two styles of gameplay. When in the overworld, the game will be played as a 2D action platformer with the player being able to move left and right as well as jump upon starting. Later on in the game, the player will learn new abilities and moves to progress further and faster. When touching an enemy in the overworld, the game will seamlessly transition to an action rpg and each character becomes controlled with a certain button. Pressing a button will move the character to the enemy to attack it. The buttons can be pressed in different orders and can be changed to different attacks by holding either up or down on the analog stick or D-pad. The player can obtain upgrades to allow them to attack multiple times with a certain character. The player can also block when the enemy attacks using the attack button for the character they want to block with, or with the entire party. When engaged in a battle, a meter will fill in the corner of the screen. When the meter is full, the player can unleash a super attack using one of their characters.

Infamous First Light	Played in a third-person perspective,  the player takes control of Abigail "Fetch" Walker (introduced as a supporting character in Second Son), a young woman classed by the Department of Unified Protection as a "conduit" who possesses superhuman powers. In custody of the D.U.P., Fetch is ordered to tell the story of the events leading up to her capture. The player can use their Neon powers to defeat enemies and traverse the environment while completing the game's levels. The game primarily takes place in the streets of a fictionalized version of Seattle and in and around the prison, Curdun Cay.

Infamous Second Son	Infamous Second Son is a 2014 action-adventure game developed by Sucker Punch Productions and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. The standalone sequel to 2011's Infamous 2 and the third installment in the Infamous series, the game was released for the PlayStation 4 on March 21, 2014. The player-controlled protagonist possesses superpower abilities that players use in combat and when traveling across the city. The story follows protagonist Delsin Rowe fighting the Department of Unified Protection (D.U.P.) in a fictionalized Seattle. Over the course of the game, Delsin acquires new powers and becomes either good or evil as player choices influence his morality.

Infernax	Infernax is a 2D Metroidvania game where the player controls the young Duke Alcedor, while the second player controls Cervul the Squire; both of them find their village overrun by a sect of satanists and a lot of monsters upon returning from the Crusades. Alcedor wields a shield and mace, while Cervul wields a throwing axe, a crossbow, a pavise (shield), and a banner, along with using bandages to keep himself and Alcedor healed up; all of these weapons and armor can be upgraded as the player progresses through the game. Players can also obtain a variety of magical spells, with some of which can be upgraded. The players earn gold and experience points whenever they defeat an enemy. Gold is used to buy upgrades for equipment, while earning enough experience points allows players to increase their health, mana (Alcedor only), or attack power.

Infinifactory	Infinifactory is a puzzle game, structured as several sets of puzzles based on various tasks. The player takes the role of a human that is abducted by an alien race and is put to work to help the aliens construct equipment; the character does not appear to be the first one that has been taken for this purpose as throughout the levels are the corpses of other abducted humans, which the player can find and listen to their last audio log. The game is divided into six worlds with several puzzles per world.  Completing a specified quota of puzzles on a world lets the player advance to the next one, as well as advancing the story. By successfully completing all the puzzles, the player's character is rescued from the alien race by other abductees to a hidden base on the alien homeworld, and begins to work with the other abductees to find a way to escape the planet and return home. Additional chapters have since been added during the game's time in Early Access, adding in new block types and furthering the story of the abductees' escape attempts.

Injustice: Gods Among Us Ultimate Edition	Injustice: Gods Among Us is a 2013 fighting video game. It is the first installment in the Injustice franchise based upon the fictional universe of DC Comics. The game was developed by NetherRealm Studios and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 3, Wii U, and Xbox 360. It was released in April 2013 in North America, Europe, and Australia, and June 2013 in Japan. An expanded version of the game, titled Injustice: Gods Among Us  Ultimate Edition, was released in November 2013 for the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Windows, and Xbox 360. A free-to-play mobile app based on Injustice was also released for iOS and Android devices, which was then ported to arcade machines by Raw Thrills in the fall of 2017, months after the sequel's release. A prequel comic book series of the same name, written by Tom Taylor, was released beginning in January 2013.

Injustice 2	Injustice 2 is a 2017 fighting video game. It is the sequel to 2013's Injustice: Gods Among Us and the second installment in the Injustice series which is based on the DC Universe. It is developed by NetherRealm Studios and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. The game was initially released in May 2017 for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One; a Windows version was released later in November 2017. An expanded version of the game, titled Injustice 2: Legendary Edition, was released in March 2018 for the PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. Similar to the previous installment, a companion mobile app was released for Android and iOS devices. A prequel comic book series of the same name, written by Tom Taylor, was also released beginning in April 2017.

The Inpatient	The Inpatient is a psychological horror video game developed by Supermassive Games and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for PlayStation 4 and its virtual reality headset PlayStation VR. The game was released in January 2018.

Insane Robots	The game was nominated for the "Creativity Award" and "Best Strategy Game" at The Independent Game Developers' Association Awards 2018.

Inside	Inside is a puzzle-platform game developed and published by Playdead in 2016, and was released on June 29, for Xbox One, Windows, on July 7, and August 23, for PlayStation 4. The game was released for iOS in December 2017 and Nintendo Switch in June 2018. A macOS version was released in June 2020. The player controls a boy in a dystopic world, solving environmental puzzles and avoiding death. It is the successor to Playdead's 2010 Limbo, with similar 2.5D gameplay.

Inside My Radio	Inside My Radio is a rhythm platform game developed by French independent video game developer Seaven Studio and published by Iceberg Interactive. The prototype was made by TurboDindon during Ludum Dare #23, a video game development competition, where it won both the Overall and Audio prizes in the Jam category. Seaven Studio and TurboDindon have continued development in order to release Inside My Radio on Windows, Xbox One and PlayStation 4. On 10 January 2019, the game was released for the Nintendo Switch.

Insurgency: Sandstorm	Insurgency: Sandstorm is a multiplayer tactical first-person shooter video game developed by New World Interactive and published by Focus Home Interactive. The game is a sequel to the 2014 video game Insurgency. Set in an unnamed fictional Middle Eastern region, the game depicts a conflict between two factions: "Security", loosely based on various militaries (namely NATO forces; United States SOCOM; the armed forces of Iraq, Afghanistan, and Syria; Kurdish YPG and YPJ; and Western private military companies); and "Insurgents", loosely based on various paramilitary and terrorist groups (namely the Islamic State, the Taliban, al-Qaeda, Security defectors, and implied Russian mercenaries).

Invisible, Inc.	Invisible, Inc. (stylized as INVI?IBLE, INC.) is a turn-based tactics stealth game incorporating elements of roguelike gameplay, by Klei Entertainment. The player acts as the remote operator for an espionage agency that has come under attack from multinational corporations, and directs agents in covert missions, acquiring resources and support in order to enable relocation of the agency's computer system to a safe haven within a limited amount of time.

Ion Fury	Ion Fury (originally titled Ion Maiden) is a 2019 cyberpunk first-person shooter video game developed by Voidpoint and published by 3D Realms. It is a prequel to the 2016 video game Bombshell. Ion Fury runs on a modified version of Ken Silverman's Build engine and is the first original commercial game to utilize the engine in 20 years, the previous being World War II GI. An expansion, Ion Fury: Aftershock, was released in October 2023.

Ironcast	The game is set in a steampunk 19th century, the player commands mecha robots (the eponymous Ironcasts) and must deploy them to repel a French invasion of Britain.  Players can choose from an assortment of missions, their successful completion will reward the player with repairs and upgrades to their Ironcast.  The missions are conducted through a match-three system, with coloured tiles on the grid representing resources required for the Ironcast's operation.

Ironclad Tactics	The game is set in an alternate history at the onset of the American Civil War in 1860, and follows the story of Maxwell and Joseph, who are both employed by the United States Navy's Bureau of Steam Engineering. They have developed robotic units called "ironclads" (supplanting the ironclad warship). They learn that after the Battle of Fort Sumter that the Confederate forces also have ironclad units, and they are ordered to help fight the Confederate forces with their ironclad forces.

Iron Harvest	The player can control mecha, infantry and hero units. The game is planned to feature over twenty missions and separate single-player storylines for each of the main three factions. The game has both multiplayer and skirmish modes.

Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon? Infinite Combat	Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon? (Japanese: , Hepburn: Danjon ni Deai o Motomeru no wa Machigatteiru Dar ka), also known as  (DanMachi) for short, and with English subtitle Familia Myth, is a Japanese light novel series written by Fujino mori and illustrated by Suzuhito Yasuda. SB Creative has published nineteen volumes since January 2013 under their GA Bunko imprint.

Island	Island (stylized as ISLAND) is a Japanese mystery romance visual novel developed by Frontwing. It was released on 28 April 2016 for Windows. It was later ported to the PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch published by Prototype. An English version of the visual novel was released on Steam in August 2018. A 12-episode anime television series adaptation by Feel aired between July and September 2018. Unlike most of Frontwing's releases, Island is not a part of their eroge catalogue.

It Takes Two	It Takes Two received positive reviews from critics and won multiple year-end accolades, including the Game of the Year at The Game Awards 2021 and the 25th Annual D.I.C.E. Awards. The game had sold over 10 million units by February 2023.

Ittle Dew 2	The game was removed from all digital console platforms on September 20, 2019 by the publisher Nicalis due to a breakdown in relations with the developer. The Steam release remains available, as it was self-published. Eventually the game got a re-release on the Nintendo Switch eShop on March 19, 2020 with Ludosity self-publishing the game.

J-Stars Victory Vs+	J-Stars Victory VS lets up to four players battle it out against one another using a gameplay and graphical style similar to those of Dragon Ball: Zenkai Battle Royale. Fighters can move and fight in all directions on one of twelve 3D battle fields, each based on a location from a different Jump series. Players should learn the lay of the land and formulate a battle plan with a character suited to it.

Jack Move	Jack Move is a single player turn based role playing game. The combat system of the game is based around strategic use of three different elements.

The Jackbox Party Pack	The Jackbox Party Pack is a series of party video games developed by Jackbox Games for many different platforms on a near-annual release schedule since 2014. Each installment contains five games that are designed to be played in groups of varying sizes, including in conjunction with streaming services like Twitch which provide means for audiences to participate.

The Jackbox Party Pack 2	The Jackbox Party Pack is a series of party video games developed by Jackbox Games for many different platforms on a near-annual release schedule since 2014. Each installment contains five games that are designed to be played in groups of varying sizes, including in conjunction with streaming services like Twitch which provide means for audiences to participate.

The Jackbox Party Pack 3	The Jackbox Party Pack is a series of party video games developed by Jackbox Games for many different platforms on a near-annual release schedule since 2014. Each installment contains five games that are designed to be played in groups of varying sizes, including in conjunction with streaming services like Twitch which provide means for audiences to participate.

The Jackbox Party Pack 4	The Jackbox Party Pack is a series of party video games developed by Jackbox Games for many different platforms on a near-annual release schedule since 2014. Each installment contains five games that are designed to be played in groups of varying sizes, including in conjunction with streaming services like Twitch which provide means for audiences to participate.

The Jackbox Party Pack 5	The Jackbox Party Pack is a series of party video games developed by Jackbox Games for many different platforms on a near-annual release schedule since 2014. Each installment contains five games that are designed to be played in groups of varying sizes, including in conjunction with streaming services like Twitch which provide means for audiences to participate.

The Jackbox Party Pack 6	The Jackbox Party Pack is a series of party video games developed by Jackbox Games for many different platforms on a near-annual release schedule since 2014. Each installment contains five games that are designed to be played in groups of varying sizes, including in conjunction with streaming services like Twitch which provide means for audiences to participate.

The Jackbox Party Pack 7	The Jackbox Party Pack is a series of party video games developed by Jackbox Games for many different platforms on a near-annual release schedule since 2014. Each installment contains five games that are designed to be played in groups of varying sizes, including in conjunction with streaming services like Twitch which provide means for audiences to participate.

The Jackbox Party Pack 8	The Jackbox Party Pack is a series of party video games developed by Jackbox Games for many different platforms on a near-annual release schedule since 2014. Each installment contains five games that are designed to be played in groups of varying sizes, including in conjunction with streaming services like Twitch which provide means for audiences to participate.

The Jackbox Party Pack 9	The Jackbox Party Pack is a series of party video games developed by Jackbox Games for many different platforms on a near-annual release schedule since 2014. Each installment contains five games that are designed to be played in groups of varying sizes, including in conjunction with streaming services like Twitch which provide means for audiences to participate.

The Jackbox Party Starter	The Jackbox Party Pack is a series of party video games developed by Jackbox Games for many different platforms on a near-annual release schedule since 2014. Each installment contains five games that are designed to be played in groups of varying sizes, including in conjunction with streaming services like Twitch which provide means for audiences to participate.

Jagged Alliance: Rage!	Jagged Alliance: Rage! is a turn-based tactics video game developed by Cliffhanger Productions and published by HandyGames for the PC, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in December 2018. It is part of the Jagged Alliance series.

Jamestown+	Jamestown features mechanics similar to many other shooters. There are 4 types of ships available, each with a primary and secondary attack, and a "Vaunt Mode" which the player can trigger when enough gold from destroyed enemies has been collected. When this mode is engaged the ship gains a temporary shield, increased firepower and a score multiplier for a limited time, which can be prolonged and increased by collecting more gold.

Jazzpunk: Director's Cut	Jazzpunk is an adventure video game developed by Necrophone Games and published by Adult Swim Games. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, OS X and Linux in February 2014. A director's cut of the game, self-published by Necrophone Games, was released for the PlayStation 4 in September 2016, and for personal computer platforms in June 2017.

Jenny LeClue: Detectiv	The choices that players make throughout the game have an impact. The game contains point-and-click elements, and features a hand-drawn art style. Players are able to interact with most items in the game. During dialogue sections, players can observe the person talking to spot clues as to whether they are lying. Locations that players explore include mines, graveyards, mountains, police stations, and libraries.

Jeopardy!	Jeopardy! is an American television game show created by Merv Griffin. The show is a quiz competition that reverses the traditional question-and-answer format of many quiz shows. Rather than being given questions, contestants are instead given general knowledge clues in the form of answers and they must identify the person, place, thing, or idea that the clue describes, phrasing each response in the form of a question.

Jet Car Stunts	Jet Car Stunts is a 2014 video game developed by Grip Games and published by BitComposer Entertainment. It is a remake of the 2009 iOS game of the same name.

Jetpack Joyride	Jetpack Joyride is a 2011 side-scrolling endless runner action video game created by Halfbrick Studios. It was released for iOS devices on the App Store on September 1, 2011 and has been ported to other systems. It was released online as a Flash version on May 11, 2012; on Android on September 28; on PlayStation Portable (via PlayStation Network, ported by Beatshapers) on November 20 in North America and November 21 in Europe; on BlackBerry PlayBook on December 13, 2012; on PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita (via PlayStation Network, ported by Big Ant Studios) on December 21 in Europe and December 31 in North America; on BlackBerry 10 on March 6, 2013; and on Windows Phone 8 and Windows 8 on June 5. It was also released on PlayStation 4 on April 26, 2016. A mobile version using the keypad was released in 2021 for KaiOS devices.

Jikkyou Powerful Pro Baseball 2016	eBaseball Powerful Pro Baseball, previously known as Jikky Powerful Pro Yaky and marketed internationally as Power Pros, is a Japanese baseball video game series created by Konami. The game is known for its super deformed characters, and fast-paced but deep game play. Most games in the series are developed under license from the Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) and the Japan Professional Baseball Players Association (JPBPA), letting them use the league's team names, stadiums, colors, and players' names and likenesses. There are also six games in the series with the Major League Baseball (MLB) and Major League Baseball Players Association (MLBPA) license, two with the Korea Baseball Organization (KBO) and Korea Professional Baseball Players Association (KPBPA), and one with the World Baseball Classic license. It is long running in Japan, starting out in 1994 for the Super Famicom, and appearing on many different consoles: Saturn (19951997), PlayStation (19942003), Nintendo 64 (19972001), PlayStation 2 (20002009), Dreamcast (2000), GameCube (20022006), Wii (20072009), PlayStation 3 (20102016), PlayStation 4 (since 2016) as well as PlayStation Portable (20072013) and Vita (2012-2018).

Jikkyou Powerful Pro Baseball 2018	eBaseball Powerful Pro Baseball, previously known as Jikky Powerful Pro Yaky and marketed internationally as Power Pros, is a Japanese baseball video game series created by Konami. The game is known for its super deformed characters, and fast-paced but deep game play. Most games in the series are developed under license from the Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) and the Japan Professional Baseball Players Association (JPBPA), letting them use the league's team names, stadiums, colors, and players' names and likenesses. There are also six games in the series with the Major League Baseball (MLB) and Major League Baseball Players Association (MLBPA) license, two with the Korea Baseball Organization (KBO) and Korea Professional Baseball Players Association (KPBPA), and one with the World Baseball Classic license. It is long running in Japan, starting out in 1994 for the Super Famicom, and appearing on many different consoles: Saturn (19951997), PlayStation (19942003), Nintendo 64 (19972001), PlayStation 2 (20002009), Dreamcast (2000), GameCube (20022006), Wii (20072009), PlayStation 3 (20102016), PlayStation 4 (since 2016) as well as PlayStation Portable (20072013) and Vita (2012-2018).

Joe Dever's Lone Wolf	While traditional 3D action RPG combat is the main focus on the game, plot is mostly delivered through first person perspective texts similar to the gamebook series. It also includes various supernatural disciplines learned by the Kai to give them otherworldly powers including the ability to psychically attack their opponents and defend against them. Decisions made by the player outside of combat sequence have an impact on how the plot evolves.

John Wick Hex	John Wick Hex is a 2019 tactical role-playing game developed by Bithell Games and published by Good Shepherd Entertainment based on the John Wick franchise. It was released on 8 October 2019 for macOS and Windows. The PlayStation 4 port of the game released on 5 May 2020. The Nintendo Switch and Xbox One ports of the game were released on 4 December 2020. The game serves as a narrative prequel to the film series.

JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Eyes of Heaven	JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Eyes of Heaven (Japanese:  , Hepburn: JoJo no Kimy na Bken Aizu Obu Hebun) is an action video game for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 developed by CyberConnect2 and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. Based on the JoJo's Bizarre Adventure manga series by Hirohiko Araki, Eyes of Heaven is the second game in the franchise to be developed by CyberConnect2, following 2013's JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: All Star Battle, with which this game shares the same engine. The game was released for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 in Japan on December 17, 2015 and was released exclusively on the PlayStation 4 in Western territories on June 28, 2016.

Jotun: Valhalla Edition	Jtun's story follows Thora, a recently deceased Viking woman.  Having suffered an inglorious death, she must travel across the realms defeating Jtunn, giant elementals of nature, chaos, power, etc. This will allow her to impress the gods and enter Valhalla. After defeating the plant giant Jera, the lightning giant Hagalaz, the ice giant Isa, the fire giant Kaunan, and the warrior giant F, she fights against Odin himself. Having proven herself, she is ascended to Valhalla.

Journey	Journey is an indie adventure game developed by Thatgamecompany, published by Sony Computer Entertainment, and directed by Jenova Chen. It was released for the PlayStation 3 via PlayStation Network in March 2012 and ported to PlayStation 4 in July 2015. It was later ported to Windows in June 2019 and iOS in August 2019.

Journey to the Savage Planet	Journey to the Savage Planet is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Typhoon Studios and published by 505 Games. It was originally released for Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on January 28, 2020, followed by a Nintendo Switch port on May 21, 2020. An upgraded version of the game titled Journey to the Savage Planet: Employee of the Month Edition was released for Stadia as a timed exclusive (due to Google's ownership of the studio) on February 1, 2021 and for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S on February 14, 2023. 

Judgment	Judgment is an action-adventure video game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega. A spin-off to the Like a Dragon series, it was released for the PlayStation 4 in December 2018 in Japan and June 2019, worldwide. A remastered version of the game, with the subtitle Remastered in Japan and Asia, was released for the PlayStation 5, Stadia, and Xbox Series X and Series S in April 2021. A port for Amazon Luna was made available on December 16, 2021. A Windows port was released on 14 September 2022 through Steam. Judgment follows lawyer-turned-detective Takayuki Yagami and his allies as they explore a case involving corpses whose eyes have been removed. The player controls Yagami in the fictional Tokyo district of Kamurocho, where he fights thugs and yakuza while carrying out missions involving chasing, stealth, and searching for clues.

Jumanji: The Video Game	The franchise includes the films Jumanji (1995), Zathura: A Space Adventure (2005), Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle (2017), Jumanji: The Next Level (2019), and an animated television series which aired from 1996 to 1999. The first film received mixed reviews from critics, while the three follow-up films received positive critical response. The films have grossed $2 billion collectively at the global box office.

Jump Force	Jump Force is a Japanese crossover fighting game developed by Spike Chunsoft and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment featuring characters from various manga series featured in Shueisha's Weekly Shnen Jump anthology in celebration of the magazine's 50th anniversary. The game was released on February 14, 2019 in Japan for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and the following day worldwide in addition to Windows. A Nintendo Switch port was released worldwide on August 28, 2020. The game received mixed reviews from critics.

Jurassic World Evolution	Jurassic World Evolution is a construction and management simulation video game developed and published by Frontier Developments. Based on the 2015 film Jurassic World, the game was released in June 2018, for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. A Nintendo Switch port of the game was released in November 2020. In the game, players construct a dinosaur park on Las Cinco Muertes Archipelago, a group of five islands also known as the "Five Deaths". The game features more than 40 types of dinosaurs; their genes can be modified to introduce new features. Players are given contracts to fulfill by three divisions, Science, Security and Entertainment, allowing them to progress. A sandbox mode set on Isla Nublar, the setting of the first and fourth films, can be unlocked. It can also be used from the main menu without having to be unlocked.

Just Cause 3	Just Cause 3 is a 2015 action-adventure game developed by Avalanche Studios and published by Square Enix's European subsidiary. It is the third game in the Just Cause series and the sequel to 2010's Just Cause 2. It was released worldwide in December 2015, for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One.

Just Cause 4	Just Cause 4 is a 2018 action-adventure game developed by Avalanche Studios and published by Square Enix. It is the fourth game in the Just Cause series and the sequel to 2015's Just Cause 3 and was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on 4 December 2018. In the game, the player assumes the role of series protagonist Rico Rodrguez who arrives in the fictional nation of Sols to take down The Black Hand, the world's biggest private military. The game uses a new version of Avalanche's Apex game engine. The new technology allows the game to feature diverse and extreme weather effects, including blizzards, sandstorms, tornadoes and more. Square Enix External Studios worked with Avalanche for the development. It received mixed reviews upon release, and failed to meet the sales expectations of Square Enix.

Just Dance 2014	Just Dance 2014 is a 2013 dance rhythm game developed and published by Ubisoft. The fifth main installment of the Just Dance series, it was announced at Ubisoft's E3 2013 press event, and released for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii, and Wii U on 9 October 2013, and for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One as a launch title on 15 November and 22 November 2013 respectively.

Just Dance 2015	The game introduced additional social networking features to the series, including the ability for players to challenge other players online, and submit clips of themselves playing for inclusion into crowdsourced "Community Remix" routines featured in-game. The game also added the ability for a smartphone to be used as a controller with a companion app.

Just Dance 2016	Just Dance 2016 is a 2015 dance video game developed and published by Ubisoft. Unveiled on June 15, 2015, during its E3 press conference as the seventh main installment of the 
series, it was released in October 2015 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Wii, and Wii U.

Just Dance 2017	Just Dance 2017 is a 2016 dance video game developed and published by Ubisoft. It was unveiled on June 13, 2016, during its E3 press conference as the eighth main installment of the series, and was released in October 2016 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Wii, Wii U, and Windows; and on March 3, 2017, for Nintendo Switch. The game was the only title of the series to be released on Windows, and was released as a launch title for Nintendo Switch.

Just Dance 2018	Just Dance 2018 is a 2017 dance rhythm game developed and published by Ubisoft. It was unveiled on June 12, 2017, during its E3 press conference as the ninth main installment of the series, and was released in October 2017 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Wii, Wii U, and Nintendo Switch.

Just Dance 2019	Just Dance 2019 is a 2018 dance rhythm game developed and published by Ubisoft. It was unveiled on June 11, 2018, during its E3 press conference as the tenth main installment of the series, and was released on October 23, 2018 on Nintendo Switch, Wii, Wii U, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, and Xbox One in North America. It was also released on October 25, 2018 in Europe and Australia. A demo for the game was released on November 12, 2018, on Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Wii U, and Nintendo Switch.

Just Dance 2020	Just Dance 2020 is a 2019 dance rhythm game developed and published by Ubisoft. It was unveiled on June 10, 2019, during its E3 press conference as the eleventh main installment of the series, in celebration of the series' tenth anniversary, and released on November 5, 2019 for Nintendo Switch, Wii, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Stadia. It was also the first game in the series to be released on Stadia. The game was exclusively released on the Nintendo Switch in Japan on March 12, 2020, and in China on December 24, 2020, in the latter of which the game is simply titled Just Dance.

Just Dance 2021	Just Dance 2021 is a 2020 dance rhythm game developed and published by Ubisoft. It was unveiled on August 26, 2020 during the Nintendo Direct Mini: Partner Showcase August 2020 web presentation as the twelfth main installment of the series, and was released on November 12, 2020, for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Stadia, and on November 24, 2020, for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S. It is the first game in the series since the initial title not to be announced at E3, due to the event's cancellation in 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is also the first game in the main series not to be released for the Wii and the first game in the series not to be available on a Nintendo optical disc.

Just Dance 2022	Just Dance 2022 is a 2021 dance rhythm game developed and published by Ubisoft. It was unveiled on June 12, 2021, during the Ubisoft Forward E3 web presentation as the thirteenth main installment of the series, and was released on November 4, 2021, for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Stadia. This is the final installment released for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Stadia (before its closure on January 18, 2023), the final installment to support PlayStation Move and camera devices and the last known game overall to support Kinect.

Just Sing	Just Sing is divided into "Party" and "Battle" modes; Party mode allows players to record lip sync music videos, while Battle is a competitive mode. The game supports the use of a companion mobile app for Android and iOS smartphones, which utilizes the device's internal microphone and camera in-game (as opposed to a wired USB microphone). Kinect and PlayStation Camera can also be used to record video footage.

Jydge	Jydge is a twin-stick shooter video game developed and published by 10tons. It is a prequel to and spin-off from Neon Chrome. Players assume the role of the JYDGEa law enforcer who must cleanse a dystopic, cyberpunk city of crime, inspired by the comic Judge Dredd. The game was released in October 2017.

Kandagawa Jet Girls	Jet Racing is a popular sport where teams of two girls work together. They consist of a Jetter, who pilots the watercraft, and a Shooter, who fires a water gun at rival teams. Aspiring to be a Jetter just like her legendary mother, Rin Namiki decides to leave her home in the countryside in order to realize her dream. Arriving in Asakusa, she meets Misa Aoi and they form a partnership. With each race, their bond grows stronger.

Kamen Rider: Battride War Genesis	Kamen Rider: Battride War ( , Kamen Raid Batoraido W) is a video game based on the Kamen Rider Series, released for the PlayStation 3 on May 23, 2013. Done in the style of Dynasty Warriors, the player controls one of the Kamen Riders as he battles through a series of enemies. The game mainly features the protagonists of the Heisei era of Kamen Rider, starting with 2000's Kamen Rider Kuuga and featuring up to 2013's Kamen Rider Wizard. Showa-era Kamen Riders were originally meant to be released as downloadable content, but only two alternate versions of characters were released instead. A limited edition of the game was released that has a soundtrack that includes the original theme songs from the TV series and films.

Kamen Rider: Climax Fighters	Kamen Rider: Climax Heroes ( , Kamen Raid Kuraimakkusu Hrzu, Masked Rider: Climax Heroes) is a series of 3D fighting game. The original Climax Heroes was released for the PlayStation 2 as part of the 10th anniversary celebration of the Heisei Kamen Rider Series by Toei, TV Asahi, Ishimori Productions, and Bandai. The game spawned four sequels as well as an American version for the Nintendo Wii based on the Kamen Rider: Dragon Knight TV series.

Kamen Rider: Memory of Heroez	The storyline heavily focuses on both Kamen Rider W and OOO, due to the absence of the Kamen Rider Zero-One cast aside from Zero-One himself.

Kamiko	Fight as priestesses called "KAMIKO" and battle against demons while solving puzzles to make your way through the stages. Look no further if you are looking for an arcade action game with a twist! Each stage has several Torii (gates) which are magically sealed.

Kamiwaza: Way of the Thief	A remastered version of the game, titled Kamiwaza: Way of the Thief, was released in October 2022 for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, and PlayStation 4 via Acquire in Japan and NIS America in North America and Europe.

Kao the Kangaroo	Kao the Kangaroo is a third-person 3D action platformer where players control Kao as he moves and jumps across obstacles and suspended platforms in a variety of environments. He is able to attack enemies using his boxing gloves as well as explore hidden areas for collectibles.

Katamari Damacy Reroll	Katamari Damacy (lit.'Clump Spirit') is a third-person puzzle-action video game developed and published by Namco for the PlayStation 2. It was released in Japan in March 2004 and later in North America in September. Designer Keita Takahashi struggled to pitch the game to Namco's superiors, eventually seeking student aid from the Namco Digital Hollywood Game Laboratory to develop the project for less than US$ 1 million. As director, Takahashi emphasized concepts of novelty, ease of understanding, and enjoyment.

Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes	Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes is a puzzle video game developed and published by Canadian studio Steel Crate Games. The game tasks a player with disarming procedurally generated bombs with the assistance of other players who are reading a manual containing instructions. It was designed around virtual reality support, with availability first on Android-driven Samsung Gear VR, with later ports to supported devices on Microsoft Windows, OS X, PlayStation 4, and Linux; though could be played without virtual reality in some cases. An update for the game released in August 2018 removed the virtual reality requirement for these existing systems, as well as included releases for the Nintendo Switch and Xbox One. Non-VR ports for iOS and Android were released in August 2019.

Ken Follett's The Pillars of the Earth	Ken Follett's The Pillars of the Earth is a point-and-click adventure video game developed and published by German studio Daedalic Entertainment. It is based on Ken Folletts award-winning 1989 novel of the same name, which was adapted as a video game across 21 playable chapters. Book 1 of the game was released on 16 August 2017, Book 2 on 13 December 2017, and Book 3 on 29 March 2018.

Kena: Bridge of Spirits	Kena: Bridge of Spirits is a 2021 action-adventure video game developed and published by Ember Lab. The story follows Kena, a young spirit guide who uses her magical abilities to help deceased people move from the physical to the spirit world. The game is presented through a third-person perspective. The player uses Kena's staff for attacking enemies, and her pulse ability for defending against attacks. They are tasked with collecting small spirit companions known as the Rot, who help to complete tasks and battle against enemies.

Kentucky Route Zero: TV Edition	Kentucky Route Zero is a point-and-click adventure interactive fiction game developed by Cardboard Computer and published by Annapurna Interactive. The game was first revealed in 2011 via the crowdfunding platform Kickstarter and is separated into five acts that were released sporadically throughout its development; the first releasing in January 2013 and the last releasing in January 2020. The game was developed for Linux, Windows, and macOS, with console ports for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One under the subtitle of "TV Edition", coinciding with the release of the final act. The game was released for Android and iOS on December 13, 2022, in partnership with Netflix. It was later also released for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S on August 17, 2023.

Kerbal Space Program	Kerbal Space Program (KSP) is a space flight simulation video game developed by Mexican studio Squad for Linux, macOS, Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S and Xbox One. In the game, players direct a space program, staffed and crewed by green humanoid aliens known as "Kerbals". The game features a psuedorealistic orbital physics engine, allowing for various real-life orbital maneuvers such as Hohmann transfer orbits and orbital rendezvous.

Kerbal Space Program 2	Kerbal Space Program 2 is a space flight simulation video game developed by Intercept Games and published by Private Division as an early access version on Windows in early 2023. 
It is the sequel to 2015's Kerbal Space Program and was released on early access on  February 24, 2023, for Windows.

Kero Blaster	In Kero Blaster, the player controls a frog working for Cat & Frog, a teleporter company. Armed with a peashooter, he has to clean all the teleporters of strange black monsters. The player has to work their way through a series of linear stages, by means of running, gunning and jumping. USGamer described the gameplay as "akin to ... Contra or old-school, pre-Symphony of the Night Castlevanias." Kero Blaster is controlled by changing direction, jumping, and charging and firing the player character's weapon. Holding down the fire button continues to fire in the direction the character was facing when he started shooting, allowing players to move the character and change the firing direction independently.

Ketsui Deathtiny: Kizuna Jigoku Tachi	Ketsui's scoring system centers around numbered "chips" that are dropped from defeated enemies. Each chip bears a number from 1 to 5, signifying their value, which gets added to the player's accumulated total of chip points when collected. The value of a chip is dependent on the player's proximity to the enemy when it is destroyed using the player's normal shots. For example, destroying an enemy from far away will yield lower-value chips (such as 1s and 2s) while destroying enemies at close range will yield higher-value chips (such as 4s and 5s). When a chip whose value is higher than 1 is obtained, a counter will appear in the upper-left of the screen and quickly count down from 60 to 0. While this counter is above zero, every enemy destroyed with the player's lock-on shots will drop chips with the same value as the chip collected that was higher than 1, regardless of proximity. For example, if the player destroys an enemy at point-blank with his/her normal shots and receives a 5-value chip, then quickly switches to their lock-on shots, every enemy destroyed will yield 5-valued chips, regardless of proximity and so long as the counter stays above 0. When the counter hits 0, every enemy destroyed with lock-on shots will only yield 1-valued chips, though the player can keep replenishing the counter by quickly collecting more chips that are valued higher than 1.

Kholat	Kholat is an survival horror game developed by IMGN.PRO, in which the player controls a protagonist who is tracing the steps of a group of nine Russian college students who went missing in February 1959 on Kholat Syakhl. The game is based on the Dyatlov Pass incident, a true event that involved ten Russian students, nine of which went missing on Kholat Syakhl and were found dead in the time span of four months (the tenth student had walked back earlier due to illness).  ("Kholat Syakhl") is a transliteration in Russian of Holatchahl, meaning "Dead Mountain" in Mansi.

Kick Off Revival	After the release of Kick Off several sequels were released. Player Manager was released in 1990. The game was the first game to combine a management environment (including tactics, league play, transfers, and detailed player attributes) with a football game engine (based on that of Kick Off). Kick Off 2 was released in 1990 as a sequel to Kick Off. The game introduced a number of new features as well as several small alterations.

KickBeat: Special Edition	During the game, enemies will come at you from all directions. You must press the direction or corresponding button to where the enemy is attacking. This all takes place to the rhythm of the current song.

Killing Floor 2	Killing Floor 2 is a first-person shooter video game that can be played alone or cooperatively with up to six players. The game is based on events from Killing Floor, in which bio-tech firm Horzine attempted to create military clones and was hijacked by an insane researcher who unleashed the clones across the UK. The clones have now rapidly spread across Europe, paralyzing the response from the European Union. In Killing Floor 2, taking place a month after the first game, the outbreak has spread beyond Europe, causing governments to collapse and communication systems to fail.

Killing Floor: Double Feature	A sequel, Killing Floor 2, was announced on May 8, 2014, and released on November 18, 2016, worldwide. A third entry was announced in August 2023 at Gamescom.

Kill la Kill: If	Combat centers around the fundamental combination of short-range attacks, long-range attacks, and guard break attacks. These core elements are supplemented by movement options and special attacks. For movement, the player is able to roam freely around the fighting arena, as well as perform an air dash which brings the player directly to the opponent. With the addition of dodging and guarding, a basic rock-paper-scissors relationship is formed where blocks stop attacks, guard breaks beat guards, and dodges avoid guard breaks. Special attacks are high damage moves which require charging a special gauge through dealing/taking damage. Using a special attack will also cause a short cut scene to play with an animation of the character performing the special move.

Killzone: Shadow Fall	Killzone Shadow Fall is a 2013 first-person shooter video game developed by Guerrilla Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It is the sixth game of the Killzone series and the fourth game of the series for home consoles. Killzone Shadow Fall was released on 15 November 2013 as a launch title for the PlayStation 4 in North America and 29 November 2013 in Europe. Taking place 30 years after the events of Killzone 3, Shadow Fall follows a new set of characters, putting players in the role of Lucas Kellan, a "Shadow Marshal", who is investigating a rising threat in the continuing war between Vekta and the Helghast.

Kingdom Come: Deliverance	Kingdom Come: Deliverance is a 2018 action role-playing game developed and published by Warhorse Studios, and co-published by Deep Silver. The game is set in the medieval Kingdom of Bohemia, an Imperial State of the Holy Roman Empire, with a focus on historically accurate content.

Kingdom Hearts HD 2.8 Final Chapter Prologue	Kingdom Hearts HD 2.8 Final Chapter Prologue is a compilation of games from the Kingdom Hearts series, developed and published by Square Enix. A successor to the Kingdom Hearts HD 2.5 Remix game compilation, the new title was announced in September 2015 and released in January 2017 on PlayStation 4, on February 18, 2020 on Xbox One, on March 30, 2021 on Windows via Epic Games Store, and a cloud version of the game for Nintendo Switch was released on February 10, 2022.  

Kingdom Hearts III	Kingdom Hearts III is a 2019 action role-playing game developed and published by Square Enix for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Windows, and Nintendo Switch. It is the twelfth installment in the Kingdom Hearts series, and serves as a conclusion of the "Dark Seeker Saga" story arc that began with the original game. Set after the events of Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance, returning protagonist Sora is joined by Donald Duck, Goofy, King Mickey, and Riku in their search for seven guardians of light as they attempt to thwart Xehanort's plan to bring about a second Keyblade War. Their journey has them cross paths with characters and visit worlds based on different Disney and Pixar intellectual properties.

Kingdom Hearts: Melody of Memory	Hints at the next Kingdom Hearts game came in January 2020 from series creator Tetsuya Nomura, with the game being revealed in June. Kingdom Hearts: Melody of Memory was released worldwide in November.

Kingdom: New Lands	Kingdom: New Lands is a 2016 strategy game developed by Noio and Liquorice and published by Raw Fury. It was released on 9 August 2016 for Windows, macOS, and Xbox One. A follow-up of the 2015 video game Kingdom, players take control of a mounted monarch as they build and defend their kingdom from monsters called the Greed. The monarch can recruit subjects such as builders and archers to fortify their base, while progressing towards their goal of ruling over five islands. New Lands was a free update for owners of the original version. Versions for iOS and Android were released in March 2017, and for Nintendo Switch in September 2017, followed by PlayStation 4 on 16 January 2018. The game received mixed to generally positive reviews on release.

Kingdom: Two Crowns	Kingdom Two Crowns is a 2018 strategy video game developed by Thomas van den Berg and Coatsink and published by Raw Fury. It is the third entry in the Kingdom series. Players control a mounted monarch as they attempt to defend their kingdom from a race of monsters called the Greed. The monarch can recruit villagers to perform certain jobs while building defenses such as towers and walls to fend off waves of Greed attacking the kingdom at night. Kingdom Two Crowns features single-player and cooperative multiplayer modes, with cooperative play enabling two monarchs to join via a split screen.

Kingdoms of Amalur: Re-Reckoning	Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning is a 2012 action role-playing game developed by Big Huge Games and published by 38 Studios and Electronic Arts for Windows, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. Reckoning follows the story of the Fateless One, a resurrected person freed from the destiny which binds all of Amalur's people to destruction. Gameplay consists of players exploring the Faelands of Amalur, completing quests and fighting a variety of enemies both in field and dungeon environments. The playstyle is customized through a combination of weapons types, skill trees, and passive enhancements earned through quests and the Destiny character class system.

The King of Fighters 2002: Unlimited Match	"The King of Fighters 2002: Challenge to Ultimate Battle" brings together characters from various SNK franchises. It features a diverse roster of fighters and emphasizes team-based gameplay. Players assemble a team of three characters and engage in intense battles using a combination of unique special moves and strategic team tactics. The game is celebrated for its extensive character selection, fluid animation, and engaging fighting mechanics.

The King of Fighters '97 Global Match	KOF '97 follows the same format as the previous KOF games, but introduces two distinct playing styles which the player can select before choosing their team: Advanced and Extra.

The King of Fighters XIV	The King of Fighters XIV (KOF XIV) is a 2016 Japanese fighting game. Part of SNK's franchise The King of Fighters (KOF) series, with this installment being published by Atlus USA in North America and Deep Silver in Europe. After the 13th installment that used 2D raster imagery, this game is rendered entirely in 3D similar to the spin-off Maximum Impact. The game was released worldwide for the PlayStation 4 in August 2016 and ported to Windows and Japanese arcade cabinets in June 2017.

The King of Fighters XV	Like its predecessors, The King of Fighters XV uses a fighting system involving teams composed of three fighters. The parry system also returns under the name Shatter Strike. It also reincorporates the common MAX Mode system where fighters can use stronger techniques once energy bars are filled. Unlike in previous game, but now just like super moves prior, characters can now use MAX/EX versions of special moves, with or without entering MAX Mode. The game features a wide variety of online modes, including Ranked Match, Casual Match, Room Match, and Online Training.

Kingpin: Reloaded	In 2020, 3D Realms announced a partnership with Interplay Entertainment to release a remastered version of the game, titled Kingpin: Reloaded. It was initially planned for a release later that same year, but due to development issues the game got delayed. It was eventually released on December 5, 2023 for PC.

King's Bounty II	King's Bounty II is a tactical role-playing game played from a third-person perspective. The player assumes control of one of three main playable characters and participates in both world exploration and tactical turn-based battles. World exploration involves completing quests for others, while tactical turn-based battles take place from an isometric perspective in which the player assumes the role of a commander in charge of battling units.

King's Quest	King's Quest is an episodic video game series developed by The Odd Gentlemen and published by Activision under the Sierra Entertainment brand name for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One. It is a new re-imagining of the long-running King's Quest series. While it is an adventure game like the previous games in the series, the interface is not fully point-and-click (the PC version only uses point-and-click for the dialogue and first person scenes).

Kitaria Fables	Kitaria Fables is an RPG, but does not have a class system, allowing the player to create a custom moveset. In combat, one button is used to attack, one is used to dodge, and a third button is used to cast spells. The player can upgrade their weapons and armor using materials obtained from killing monsters. The player can also farm, growing crops to restore health. The game includes several accessories that provide the player with a stat increase when worn. The game features a variety of areas, as well as many bosses, which respawn every in-game day.

Kitty Powers' Matchmaker	The game has become popular among Let's Play personalities on YouTube, however the developer has cautioned users about posting videos as the game's soundtrack contains copyrighted music that may be automatically flagged by the website.

Knack	Knack (, Nakku) is a video game developed by Japan Studio and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 4 video game console. The game was released in North America, Europe, and Australia in November 2013 and in Japan in February 2014, where it was available as a bundle with the console.

Knack 2	Knack II is an action platform game developed by Japan Studio and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for PlayStation 4. It is the sequel to the 2013 game Knack and was released worldwide in September 2017. The game received mixed reviews, but was largely considered to be an improvement over its predecessor.

Knights and Bikes	Three tie-in novels have been written by children's author Gabrielle Kent, and published by indie publisher Knights Of. Knights and Bikes was published in August 2018; Rebel Bicycle Club was published in August 2019; Wheels of Legend was the final installment published in July 2020.

Knock-Knock	The main goal of the game is to help The Lodger survive until dawn. His house is surrounded by something which makes The Lodger fear strongly for his life. The player takes control of The Lodger and helps him survive by turning the lights on in every room of the house. The items in a room can only be interacted with only once the light is on. There might be, for example, a clock which can help speed up the time, a place where The Lodger can hide, or just some decor items. At the same time, the more rooms are lit, the faster The Guests will come. When a Guest walks into a lit room, the lights go off.

Knockout City	Knockout City is a team-based competitive multiplayer video game whose gameplay rules resemble dodgeball. The player's goal is to attack enemies from the opposing team by knocking them out with a ball. There are several types of balls in the game, including the Moon Ball, which allows the player holding the ball to jump higher, and the Bomb Ball, which is a time bomb that explodes on impact. A player can also throw another player as a ball. When ready to throw a ball, the player targets and locks on to an enemy; holding down the throw button charges up the ball for a faster shot that can be more difficult to catch. A successful throw depends not on the accuracy or the precision of the throw, but on the player's positioning and strategy. Players can dodge or catch a ball that is thrown at them, and they will respawn after getting hit by a ball twice. The player can also fake throw a ball, and tackle an opponent holding a ball. As the player progresses in the game, they will receive Holobux, which can be spent at the Brawl Shop to unlock various customization items.

Knowledge is Power	Smartphones or tablets are used to play the game via a companion app, which connects to the PlayStation 4 through the host Wi-Fi network.

Koihime Enbu	Koihime Mus: Doki Otome Darake no Sangokushi Engi has made several transitions to other media. A manga adaptation by Japanese illustrator Yayoi Hizuki was first serialized in the Japanese magazine Dengeki G's Festival! Comic on April 26, 2008. An anime adaptation produced by Doga Kobo began broadcasting on July 8, 2008, and has since released two additional seasons.

Koihime Enbu RyoRaiRai	Koihime Mus: Doki Otome Darake no Sangokushi Engi has made several transitions to other media. A manga adaptation by Japanese illustrator Yayoi Hizuki was first serialized in the Japanese magazine Dengeki G's Festival! Comic on April 26, 2008. An anime adaptation produced by Doga Kobo began broadcasting on July 8, 2008, and has since released two additional seasons.

Kona	Kona includes survival and supernatural elements with buildings to explore, which contain loot (tools, light) and can serve as shelters. The threats include cold (solved by setting up fire) and wolves (which can be shot or distracted with raw meat). There is a stress level, which increases by seeing upsetting scenes, dealing with tough situations, or having accidents. A higher stress level will decrease the sprint speed and add a shakier aim, but Carl can calm himself by smoking cigarettes and drinking beers that are spread around.

Kotodama: The 7 Mysteries of Fujisawa	This Japanese video game corporation or company article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Kunio-kun: The World Classics Collection	A few of the early Kunio games for the NES were localized for the North American market. These include Renegade, River City Ransom, Super Dodge Ball, Crash 'n' the Boys: Street Challenge and Nintendo World Cup, which are heavily "Americanized" versions of the Kunio-kun games. Techns Japan has released over twenty Kunio-kun titles for the Famicom, Game Boy, and Super Famicom in Japan. In addition, licensed ports of the games were made for other platforms such as the PC-Engine (through Naxat Soft), Mega Drive (through Pal Soft) and the X68000 (through Sharp).

Labyrinth Life	Omega Labyrinth is a roguelike dungeon crawler role-playing game. The dungeon is randomly generated; each time Aina and her accomplices enters the dungeon, its map, monsters, and available items change. As players move within the dungeon, the monsters also move in a turn-based fashion. Players accumulate experience by defeating monsters and characters become stronger as they level up. If they leave the dungeon, the characters are reduced back to level 1, and all items are lost when the health bar reaches zero. Thus, missions must be completed all in one go. The goal of the game is to search for and obtain the "Holy Grail of Beauty", whilst defeating monsters and avoiding traps through utilizing items, armor, and weapons.

Labyrinth of Galleria: The Moon Society	A witch tasks players with exploring a labyrinth beneath her mansion.  Unlike traditional first-person party-based dungeon crawlers, players control teams of adventurers.  Each team consists of up to eight adventurers, and there can be up to five teams, making for combined parties of up to 40 characters.  The narrative elements are similar to visual novels.

Labyrinth of Refrain: Coven of Dusk	The player walks through the dungeon using a first-person view, which allows the player to navigate it in fixed increments. A dungeon is presented using simple 3D computer graphics. After a random encounter, the party of the player battles a group of monsters, which are presented as 2D sprites, in a turn-based battle. Because the player character is a book, the witch in the game creates dolls that do the fighting for the player. Dolls are sorted in six classes, so-called Facets: Aster Knights, Shinobushi, Theatrical Stars, Peer Fortresses, Marginal Mazes, and Mad Raptors. Wielding two-handed weapons, an Aster Knight is balanced in defending and attacking. Shinobushi specialize in speed and dual-wielding swords. Theatrical Stars use special weapons called Spell Bells, allowing them to support other characters in the party while not doing direct damage to opponents. Peer Fortresses are the tanks of the game. They have tough armor and can take heavy hits. Marginal Mazes use special spells called Donam, which they use for support of other party members. They also perform flame, mud, and fog-based attacks by using special weapons called Eclipse Stands. Mad Raptors use weapons called Hyakka Yumi that shoot out flame, mud, and fog-based attacks.

Laid-Back Camp: Have a Nice Day!	The manga was first serialized in Houbunsha's Manga Time Kirara Forward magazine from July 2015 to February 2019 until it was transferred to the publisher website and app for manga called Comic Fuz. It has been collected in fifteen tankbon volumes. The manga is licensed in North America by Yen Press.

Laid-Back Camp -Virtual- Fumoto Campsite	The manga was first serialized in Houbunsha's Manga Time Kirara Forward magazine from July 2015 to February 2019 until it was transferred to the publisher website and app for manga called Comic Fuz. It has been collected in fifteen tankbon volumes. The manga is licensed in North America by Yen Press.

Laid-Back Camp -Virtual- Lake Motosu	The manga was first serialized in Houbunsha's Manga Time Kirara Forward magazine from July 2015 to February 2019 until it was transferred to the publisher website and app for manga called Comic Fuz. It has been collected in fifteen tankbon volumes. The manga is licensed in North America by Yen Press.

Lair of the Clockwork God	Lair of the Clockwork God is a two-dimensional side-scroller. Ben is controlled by the conventional point-and-click style, whereas Dan is controlled as a platformer, on a mission to recover a flower that can cure cancer.

L.A. Noire	L.A. Noire is a 2011 action-adventure video game developed by Team Bondi and published by Rockstar Games. Set in 1947 Los Angeles, the game follows detective Cole Phelps's rise among the ranks of the Los Angeles Police Department as he solves a range of cases across various bureaus. When he is tasked with investigating a morphine distribution ring involving several of his former squadmates from World War II, Phelps finds both his personal and professional life falling into turmoil, and reluctantly joins forces with his estranged former comrade, Jack Kelso, as they uncover a major conspiracy involving prominent Los Angeles figures.

La-Mulana	The protagonist of the game is Lemeza, a whip wielding adventurer exploring the tomb within La-Mulana. Although there is only one ending in the game there are many ways to get there, in that completing objectives in the game (gaining power ups and reaching new areas) is not linear, nor is there an obvious recommended path to take. Many powerups will allow the player to reach new areas, but the game gives no indication of where to go.

La-Mulana 2	The protagonist of the game is Lemeza, a whip wielding adventurer exploring the tomb within La-Mulana. Although there is only one ending in the game there are many ways to get there, in that completing objectives in the game (gaining power ups and reaching new areas) is not linear, nor is there an obvious recommended path to take. Many powerups will allow the player to reach new areas, but the game gives no indication of where to go.

Langrisser I & II HD Remastered	After separating from Masaya following the release of Langrisser V, Career Soft would produce an unofficial successor in the form of the Growlanser series, published and owned by Atlus, while Masaya would go on to produce Langrisser Millenium with a different development team (Santa Entertainment).

Lara Croft and the Temple of Osiris	Lara Croft and the Temple of Osiris is an action-adventure game developed by Crystal Dynamics and published by Square Enix's European subsidiary for Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia and Nintendo Switch. It is the sequel to the 2010 video game Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light, and the second installment in Lara Croft spin-off series of the Tomb Raider franchise.  The video game was announced at E3 2014 on 9 June.

Lara Croft Go	Lara Croft Go is a turn-based puzzle video game in the Tomb Raider series. The player moves Lara Croft as a puzzle piece through a board game while avoiding obstacles and manipulating the environment. The developers distilled major series motifs, such as boulder-chases and reaction-based gameplay, to suit Lara Croft Go's time-independent gameplay. Square Enix Montral developed the game as a spiritual successor to its 2014 Hitman Go, based on another Square Enix Europe franchise. It was released in August 2015 for Android, iOS, Windows, and Windows Phone devices. Versions for PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita and Steam were released in December 2016.

Laser League	Laser League is a futuristic sports video game by Roll7. Two teams of one, two or three players compete to outlast their opponents by setting up moving lasers in an arena. The game was released in early access during 2017, and officially released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One platforms in 2018.

Laserlife	The game received mixed reviews from critics, complimenting its graphics, sound, and experimental nature, but criticizing its brevity.

The Last Blade 2	Gameplay elements remain the same as their predecessor with some minor adjustments. An "EX" mode was added to play, which is a combination of "Speed" and "Power". The mood is grimmer than its predecessor through the introduction to the game. The characters are colored slightly darker, and the game's cut-scenes are made longer to emphasize the importance of the plot. Characters are no longer equal, hosting greater differences in strengths and weaknesses than before.

The Last Campfire	The Last Campfire is a puzzle game. The player assumes control of a soul named Ember, who must solve various environmental puzzles to help fellow forlorn souls who have lost hope to find their purposes. As the player saves all the Forlorns in an area, new areas will be unlocked. As players progress, they would meet and assist various non-playable characters, who will give Ember new items for solving puzzles. Players can play the game in "explore mode", which removes most of the puzzles in the game.

Last Day of June	Last Day of June incorporates elements of adventure and puzzle games in a third-person perspective. The player initially controls Carl, who is on a date with June at the lake, on the day leading up to their car accident. The game then moves back to the day before the crash, where the player now controls June at their house, and Carl shortly after. Then it switches back to their date at the lake, where the player controls Carl again, and drive back to their home. Afterwards, the player controls Carl in their house at a later date, and discovers that June's paintings can be interacted with. This allows the player to take control of various characters from the day of the accident in an attempt to solve puzzles and alter the sequence of events that indirectly caused the accident. As the player fails to prevent June's death, new paintings and characters are unlocked to allow for an increasingly complex sequence of changes. Throughout the game, the player alternately controls six characters (in chronological order: Carl, June, The Kid, The Best Friend, The Hunter, and The Old Man).

The Last Door	The plot revolves around four childhood friends, of which the player controls Jeremiah Devitt (and later his psychiatrist, Doctor Wakefield), who attempt to explore a supernatural territory/phenomenon known as the Veil. The story takes place long after the friends have separated, and Devitt is summoned by his old friend Anthony Beechworth's last words to investigate the mysterious supernatural forces that now threaten them all.

The Last Guardian	The Last Guardian is a 2016 action-adventure game developed by Japan Studio and GenDesign and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. Players control a boy who befriends a giant half-bird, half-mammal creature, Trico.

The Last Remnant Remastered	The Last Remnant is the first Square Enix game to use the Unreal Engine. It was intended by Square Enix president Yoichi Wada to "become a cornerstone for  worldwide strategy". The game's soundtrack was released as a three-disc album, composed by Tsuyoshi Sekito and Yasuhiro Yamanaka. The design and dialogue of the game were created to appeal to players worldwide, and motion capture for every character with the English-speaking dialogue. The game received a weak reception, though it was received more positively by Japanese reviewers than other ones. A common complaint, especially for Xbox 360, was of graphical problems including low framerates and "texture pop-in" where higher resolution textures would suddenly replace lower ones several seconds after a scene had started. Other issues included complaints about the game's storyline and battle system, though these were not as universal. The game received praise for art direction and music.

The Last of Us Remastered	What is your favourite game?<mct>The Last of Us is a 2013 action-adventure game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. Players control Joel, a smuggler tasked with escorting a teenage girl, Ellie, across a post-apocalyptic United States. The Last of Us is played from a third-person perspective. Players use firearms and improvised weapons and can use stealth to defend against hostile humans and cannibalistic creatures infected by a mutated fungus. In the online multiplayer mode, up to eight players engage in cooperative and competitive gameplay.

The Last of Us: Left Behind	The game is played from a third-person perspective; players use firearms, improvised weapons, and stealth to defend against hostile humans and zombie-like creatures infected by a mutated strain of the Cordyceps fungus. Players can use "Listen Mode" to locate enemies through a heightened sense of hearing and spatial awareness. The game also features a crafting system, allowing players to customize weapons through the upgrades. Left Behind was released worldwide on February 14, 2014 for the PlayStation 3; it was later bundled with The Last of Us Remastered, an updated version of the game released for the PlayStation 4 on July 29, 2014, and then released as a stand-alone expansion pack for both consoles on May 12, 2015. It was included in The Last of Us Part I, a remake of the game released on PlayStation 5 in September 2022 and Windows in March 2023.

The Last of Us Part II	Did you played last of us Part 2?<mct>Is there any other installment of this game?<mct>The Last of Us Part II is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. Set five years after The Last of Us (2013), the game focuses on two playable characters in a post-apocalyptic United States whose lives intertwine: Ellie, who sets out in revenge for a murder, and Abby, a soldier who becomes involved in a conflict between her militia and a religious cult. The game uses a third-person perspective; the player must fight human enemies and cannibalistic zombie-like creatures with firearms, improvised weapons, and stealth.

Last Stop	Last Stop is a third-person game, where players control one of three main characters, by deciding what they should say and performing a variety of minigame interactions.

The Last Tinker: City of Colors	The player controls a young anthropomorphic monkey named Koru as he rises, using color and emotion, from his home in the slums of Colortown to stand against the "Bleakness", a force trying to wipe out all joy and life from the world. An Xbox One port of the game was planned, but was cancelled due to poor sales on the PlayStation 4 version.

Late Shift	Late Shift is an interactive FMV video game written and directed by Tobias Weber. The participation film technology behind the title was developed by CtrlMovie. The title was screened at many international film festivals, including The New York Film Festival, Raindance Film Festival, and the Festival du nouveau cinma.

LawBreakers	LawBreakers was a 2017 first-person shooter video game developed by Boss Key Productions and published by Nexon. The game was released for PlayStation 4 and Windows on August 8, 2017. Physical editions were distributed by Limited Run Games.

Layers of Fear	Layers of Fear is a psychological horror adventure game developed by Bloober Team and published by Aspyr. It was released on Linux, Microsoft Windows, macOS, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One worldwide in February 2016.

Layers of Fear 2	Layers of Fear 2 is a psychological horror video game developed by Bloober Team. It was released for Linux, Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in 2019, and for the Nintendo Switch in 2021. It is a sequel to Layers of Fear.

League of Legends: Wild Rift	Please suggest me a mobile game?<mct>A mobile game?<mct>League of Legends: Wild Rift (abbreviated League: WR or simply Wild Rift) is a multiplayer online battle arena mobile game developed and published by Riot Games for Android and iOS. The free-to-play game is a modified version of the PC game League of Legends.

Leaving Lyndow	Leaving Lyndow take place on the island of Eastshade. You play as Clara, who has recently graduated from the Guild of Maritime Exploration, and are preparing to embark on a long and dangerous research expedition. Throughout the game, you speak to her friends and family, learning about their feelings regarding your departure.

Left Alive	Left Alive is a 2019 action-adventure stealth game developed by Ilinx and published by Square Enix. It was released in February and March 2019 for the PlayStation 4 and Windows platforms. It was announced at a press conference by Sony Interactive Entertainment before the 2017 Tokyo Game Show. Set in the universe of the Front Mission series of videogames, the story follows several individuals trying to survive amidst a surprise invasion of their country, while both helping civilians to safety and attempting to stop destruction and damage wrought by Wanzers, a form of combat mecha.

The Legend of Heroes: Trails from Zero	The Legend of Heroes: Trails from Zero, known as Zero no Kiseki in Japan, is a 2010 role-playing video game developed by Nihon Falcom. The game is a part of the Trails series, itself a part of the larger The Legend of Heroes series. It takes place in Crossbell, a city-state located between two great powers fighting for control over it, and follows Lloyd Bannings and his colleagues Elie MacDowell, Randy Orlando, and Tio Plato. The four form the Special Support Section, a newly formed department of the Crossbell police. The game and its 2011 sequel, Trails to Azure, form the Crossbell arc of the series.

The Legend of Heroes: Trails into Reverie	The Legend of Heroes: Trails into Reverie is a 2020 role-playing video game developed by Nihon Falcom. The game is a part of the Trails series, itself a part of the larger The Legend of Heroes series. It was released in Japan for the PlayStation 4 in August 2020, with ports released for the Nintendo Switch and Windows in August 2021. An English version was released in July 2023, additionally being ported to PlayStation 5. Trails into Reverie is considered the end of the series' Crossbell and Erebonia arcs and serves as the precursor to The Legend of Heroes: Trails Through Daybreak.

The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel	The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel is a 2013 role-playing video game developed by Nihon Falcom. The game is a part of the Trails series, itself a part of the larger The Legend of Heroes series. It was initially released in Japan for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita before being localized in English by Xseed Games in 2015.

The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel II	The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel II is a 2014 role-playing video game developed by Nihon Falcom. The game is a part of the Trails series, itself a part of the larger The Legend of Heroes series, and serves as a sequel to The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel. 

The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel III	The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel III is a 2017 role-playing video game developed by Nihon Falcom. The game is a part of the Trails series, itself a part of the larger The Legend of Heroes series, and serves as a direct sequel to The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel II. 

The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel IV	The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel IV is a 2018 role-playing video game developed by Nihon Falcom. The game is a part of the Trails series, itself a part of the larger The Legend of Heroes series, and is the sequel to Trails of Cold Steel III and the final entry of the Trails of Cold Steel arc. 

The Legend of Heroes: Trails Through Daybreak	Trails Through Daybreak was released in Japan for the PlayStation 4 in September 2021. A port for the PlayStation 5 was released in Japan and other Asian regions in July 2022, along with a Windows port in Chinese and Korean. A Japanese Windows port was released in March 2023. An English version by NIS America, including a Nintendo Switch port, is scheduled to be released in mid-2024. A sequel, The Legend of Heroes: Trails Through Daybreak II, was released in 2022.

The Legend of Heroes: Trails to Azure	The Legend of Heroes: Trails to Azure, known as Ao no Kiseki in Japan, is a 2011 role-playing video game developed by Nihon Falcom. The game is a part of the Trails series, itself a part of the larger The Legend of Heroes series. Trails to Azure serves as a sequel to Trails from Zero (2010), forming the second and final part of the series' "Crossbell arc".

Legend of Kay Anniversary	Another version of the game was developed for the Nintendo DS by Firehazard Studio. It was released on May 28, 2010, in Europe, in North America on June 14, and in Australia on August 26. However, this version did not receive positive reviews.

The Legend of Korra	The Legend of Korra (abbreviated as TLOK), also known as Avatar: The Legend of Korra, or more rarely simply as Korra, is an American animated fantasy action television series created by Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko for Nickelodeon. A sequel to their previous series Avatar: The Last Airbender, which aired from 2005 to 2008, the series ran for 52 episodes ("chapters"), separated into four seasons ("books"), from April 14, 2012, to December 19, 2014. It has been continued as a comic book series.

Legend of Mana	While incorporating action role-playing elements from the prior games in the series, such as real-time battles, Legend of Mana has its own distinct style of gameplay. Most notably, it gives the player the ability to shape the world's structure through the Land Make system, generating regions and quests in a non-linear gameplay system rather than a strong main plotline. Legend of Mana was directed by series creator Koichi Ishii, designed by Akihiko Matsui, and produced by veteran Square director and producer Akitoshi Kawazu.

The Legend of Nayuta: Boundless Trails	The Legend of Nayuta: Boundless Trails, known as Nayuta no Kiseki in Japan, is a 2012 action role-playing game developed by Nihon Falcom. The game is a part of the Trails series, itself a part of the larger The Legend of Heroes series. It was first released in Japan for PlayStation Portable. A high-definition remaster was released in Japan for PlayStation 4 and Windows in 2021 and for Nintendo Switch in 2022. This version was localized in English by NIS America and released in September 2023.

Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham	Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham is a Lego-themed action-adventure platform video game developed by Traveller's Tales and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment that was released in 2014. It is the third installment in the Lego Batman video game series and a sequel to Lego Batman: The Videogame and Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes. Similarly to its predecessor, the game features voice acting and semi-open world environments, and focuses on a large cast of characters from the entire DC Universe rather than just Batman and Robin. In the game's story, Brainiac attacks the Earth, intending to shrink the planet and add it to his collection, which forces the Justice League and the Legion of Doom to form an unlikely alliance to stop him.

Lego Brawls	Lego Brawls is a family-friendly fighting game developed and published by Lego Games in partnership with American studio Red Games Co., and is being distributed in physical format for consoles by Bandai Namco Entertainment. LEGO Brawls was released for Apple Arcade on September 19, 2019, for iOS mobile devices. LEGO Brawls was the first LEGO game for Apple Arcade. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on September 2, 2022.

Lego DC Super-Villains	Lego DC Super-Villains is a Lego-themed action-adventure platform video game developed by Traveller's Tales. The fourth installment in the Lego Batman series of games, it is a spin-off that focuses entirely on villains of the DC Universe; it is the first in the series to do so since the villain levels from Lego Batman: The Videogame. The game was released by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment on 16 October 2018 in North America and 19 October worldwide. The macOS version of the game was released by Feral Interactive on 30 July 2019.

Lego Dimensions	Lego Dimensions is a Lego-themed action-adventure platform crossover video game developed by Traveller's Tales and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, for the PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, Xbox One, Xbox 360, and Wii U. It follows the toys-to-life format, in that the player has Lego figures and a toy pad that can be played within the game itself where it features characters and environments from over 30 different franchises. The Starter Pack, containing the game, the USB toy pad, and three minifigures, was released in September 2015, while additional level packs and characters were released over the following two years.

Lego Harry Potter Collection	The main focus of the line is Harry Potter's first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry as he discovers that he is a famous wizard and begins his education. Later on, sets based on other installments and spin-offs would be produced too.

Lego The Hobbit	Lego The Hobbit is a Lego-themed action-adventure video game developed by Traveller's Tales. The game was released by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment on 8 April 2014 in North America, and 11 April in Europe. The game is a follow-up to Lego The Lord of the Rings based on the first two Hobbit films; An Unexpected Journey and The Desolation of Smaug. It was released on PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Wii U, Nintendo 3DS, OS X and Microsoft Windows.

Lego Jurassic World	Lego Jurassic World is a Lego-themed action-adventure video game developed by TT Fusion and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. It adapts the plots of the first four films in the Jurassic Park franchise, and is part of a series of Lego-themed video games. The game was released for Nintendo 3DS, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Wii U, Windows, Xbox 360, and Xbox One on 12 June 2015 to coincide with the theatrical release of Jurassic World. An OS X port by Feral Interactive followed shortly thereafter, on 23 July. Lego Jurassic World was later released for Android and iOS on 31 March 2016. A Nintendo Switch version was later released on 17 September 2019.

Lego Marvel Super Heroes	Lego Marvel Super Heroes is a 2013 Lego-themed action-adventure video game developed by Traveller's Tales and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii U, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch,  and Microsoft Windows, and published by Feral Interactive for OS X. The game features gameplay similar to other Lego titles, such as Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga and Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes, alternating between various action adventure sequences and puzzle solving scenarios. The handheld version of the game by TT Fusion was released under the title Lego Marvel Super Heroes: Universe in Peril for iOS, Android, Nintendo DS, Nintendo 3DS and PlayStation Vita. A Nintendo Switch version was released on October 8, 2021.

Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2	Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2 is a Lego-themed action-adventure video game developed by Traveller's Tales and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on 14 November 2017, and by Feral Interactive for macOS on 2 August 2018. It is the sequel to 2013's Lego Marvel Super Heroes and the third instalment of the Lego Marvel franchise.

Lego Marvel's Avengers	Lego Marvel's Avengers is a Lego-themed action-adventure video game developed by Traveller's Tales and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, for the Nintendo 3DS, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Wii U, Windows, Xbox 360, Xbox One, and OS X. It is the spin-off to Lego Marvel Super Heroes and the second installment of the Lego Marvel franchise. The game is based on the Marvel Cinematic Universe, primarily following the plots of The Avengers and Avengers: Age of Ultron, with single levels based on Captain America: The First Avenger, Iron Man 3, Thor: The Dark World, and Captain America: The Winter Soldier.

Lego Movie Videogame	The Lego Movie Videogame is a Lego-themed action-adventure video game developed by TT Fusion. It follows the plot of the animated film The Lego Movie. The game was published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment and released alongside the film in 2014 for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo 3DS, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Wii U, Xbox 360, and Xbox One and on 16 October 2014 for Mac OS X by Feral Interactive. It was also ported to Apple's App Store was released on 22 January 2015 and Google Play was released on 3 May 2016.

Lego Movie Videogame 2	The Lego Movie 2 Videogame is a Lego-themed action-adventure video game developed by Traveller's Tales and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. Based on the 2019 film of the same name, it is a direct stand-alone sequel and the second installment to The Lego Movie Videogame, released on February 26, 2019, for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One; and on March 14, 2019, it was released for macOS. It is the last Lego Movie video game to be published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment before Warner Bros.  its contract with The Lego Group expired in favor of a new one with Universal Pictures in 2020.

Lego Ninjago Movie Video Game	The Lego Ninjago Movie Video Game is a Lego-themed action-adventure video game developed by TT Fusion and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. Based on The Lego Ninjago Movie, it was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, alongside the film, in North America on 22 September 2017, and worldwide on 20 October 2017. It serves as the second spin-off video game and the third game in The Lego Movie franchise.

Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens	Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens is a 2016 Lego-themed action-adventure game developed by TT Fusion. It is the fifth entry in TT Games' Lego Star Wars series of video games and adapts the events of the 2015 film Star Wars: The Force Awakens. Under license from Lucasfilm, the game was released by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment for Nintendo 3DS, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Wii U, Windows, Xbox 360, and Xbox One, on 28 June 2016, and for Android, and iOS, on 28 July 2016. The game was ported and released by Feral Interactive for OS X on 30 June 2016. 

Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga	Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga is a 2022 Lego-themed action-adventure game developed by Traveller's Tales and published by Warner Bros. Games. It is the sixth installment in the Lego Star Wars video game series. The game adapts all nine entries in the Skywalker Saga series of films, with additional characters based on other Star Wars films and television series released as DLC.

Lego Worlds	Lego Worlds is a Lego-themed sandbox game developed by Traveller's Tales and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. The game allows players to build constructions in a 3D procedurally generated world. A beta version of the game was released on 1 June 2015 on Steam Early Access. It was released on 7 March 2017 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. A version for Nintendo Switch was released on 5 September 2017 in North America and 8 September 2017 in Europe.

Legrand Legacy: Tale of the Fatebounds	The game has been described by the game's developers as "nostalgic love letter to class JRPGs. The game features turn-based battles. The game's battle's contain quick time events, involving buttons quickly being pressed as directed - similar to that found in Final Fantasy VIII and The Legend of Dragoon, and a "weapons triangle" similar to that found in Fire Emblem, where there are three main weapon types, each type being stronger and weaker to one other type. Outside of battle, similar to Skies of Arcadia, the player may also recruit non-playable characters to reside and work in an old castle, which in turn offer new features and benefits to the player.

Leo's Fortune: HD Edition	The game was released for mobile devices on April 23, 2014. Microsoft Windows, OS X, and PlayStation 4 versions were released on September 8, 2015.

Leisure Suit Larry: Wet Dreams Don't Dry	A sequel, Leisure Suit Larry: Wet Dreams Dry Twice, was released on October 23, 2020 for Microsoft Windows and macOS, and also planned to release for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in 2021.

Leisure Suit Larry: Wet Dreams Dry Twice	The game is notable for being the last performance of long-time Larry Laffer voice actor Jan Rabson in a Leisure Suit Larry game prior to his death in October 2022.

Lemnis Gate	Lemnis Gate was a first-person arena shooter video game developed by Ratloop Games Canada and published by Frontier Foundry. It was released on September 28, 2021 for the PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. It was also published to Xbox Game Pass on its first day of release as well. 

Lethal League	Lethal League is an indie fighting video game developed by Dutch developer Team Reptile. It was released worldwide on Windows on 27 August 2014, with PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions released in May 2017. A sequel, Lethal League Blaze, was released on Windows in October 2018 and on the Nintendo Switch in July 2019.

Lethal League Blaze	Lethal League is an indie fighting video game developed by Dutch developer Team Reptile. It was released worldwide on Windows on 27 August 2014, with PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions released in May 2017. A sequel, Lethal League Blaze, was released on Windows in October 2018 and on the Nintendo Switch in July 2019.

Let's Sing Country	Let's Sing is a music video game series developed by Voxler and published by Deep Silver. In 2020, Koch Media acquired developer Voxler.

Let Them Come	Let Them Come (French: Maintenant ils peuvent venir) is a 2015 French-Algerian drama film directed by Salem Brahimi. It was screened in the Contemporary World Cinema section of the 2015 Toronto International Film Festival.

Lichdom: Battlemage	The game allows the player to traverse the main quest as a male or female character. Each character has subtle differences in their origin story. There are challenge levels which the player can choose to do as battle-oriented side-quests. Gameplay centers on enemies dropping randomized loot based on the rarity level the character has achieved through reaching checkpoints. The player's spells can be further enhanced by increasing the level of a Sigil through accomplishing specific goals.

Lichtspeer: Double Speer Edition	Lichtspeer is an action video game developed and published by Lichthund. The game was released in September 2016 for Microsoft Windows, macOS, Linux, and PlayStation 4. In 2017, it was released under the title Lichtspeer: Double Speer Edition for PlayStation Vita and Nintendo Switch. The game takes place in a futuristic version of the time of ancient Germanic mythology whereby the player controls a lone warrior that must fight off waves of enemies using a throwable "Lichtspeer" and several "Lichtpowers".

Life Is Strange	Life Is Strange is an episodic adventure game developed by Dontnod Entertainment and published by Square Enix. The first installment of the Life Is Strange series, the game was released in five episodes periodically throughout 2015 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox 360, and Xbox One. It was ported to OS X and Linux in 2016, and iOS and Android in 20172018.

Life Is Strange 2	Life Is Strange 2 is an episodic adventure game developed by Dontnod Entertainment and published by Square Enix. Its five episodes were released between September 2018 and December 2019 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One and later for Linux, macOS and Nintendo Switch. A main sequel in the Life Is Strange series, the game's plot features Hispanic American brothers Sean and Daniel as they travel along the US West Coast as fugitives from the police after the younger brother discovers his telekinetic abilities. In the game, which is played from a third-person perspective, Sean must make crucial decisions that will lead to different branches in the storyline, while serving as a surrogate parent for Daniel.

Life Is Strange: Before the Storm	Life Is Strange: Before the Storm is an episodic adventure game developed by Deck Nine and published by Square Enix. Its three episodes were released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in late 2017. It is the second entry in the Life Is Strange series, set as a prequel to the original game, focusing on 16-year-old Chloe Price and her relationship with schoolmate Rachel Amber. Gameplay concerns itself mostly with the use of branching dialogues and interacting with the environment. In September 2018, it was ported to Linux and macOS and later that month to Android and iOS. A remastered version of the game was released as part of the Life Is Strange Remastered Collection in February 2022.

Life Is Strange: True Colors	Life Is Strange: True Colors is an adventure game developed by Deck Nine and published by Square Enix. It was released on 10 September 2021 for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Stadia; a Nintendo Switch version released on 7 December 2021. The plot focuses on Alex Chen, a young woman who can experience the emotions of others, as she tries to solve the mystery behind a tragedy that happened in her life.

Lil' Guardsman	In Lil' Guardsman, the player takes the role of Lil, a 12-year-old girl who must do her father's duties as a guardsman. Players must decide to admit, deny, or (later) arrest different characters, and the player's choices have an impact on the story.

Limbo	Limbo is a puzzle-platform video game with horror elements developed by independent studio Playdead and originally published by Microsoft Game Studios for the Xbox 360. The game was released in July 2010 on Xbox Live Arcade, and has since been ported by Playdead to several other systems, including the PlayStation 3, Linux and Microsoft Windows. Limbo is a 2D side-scroller, incorporating a physics system that governs environmental objects and the player character. The player guides an unnamed boy through dangerous environments and traps as he searches for his sister. The developer built the game's puzzles expecting the player to fail before finding the correct solution. Playdead called the style of play "trial and death", and used gruesome imagery for the boy's deaths to steer the player from unworkable solutions.

Lisa: Definitive Edition	In Lisa: The Painful, the player controls Brad Armstrong, a balding, middle-aged man with a troubled past who journeys through the wasteland of Olathe in search of Buddy, his adoptive daughter. Along the way, he is forced to make choices that permanently affect both his own well-being and that of his party members. The game received generally favorable reviews, with praise for its darkly comedic writing and soundtrack. Expanded versions of Lisa: The Painful and Lisa: The Joyful, bundled under the title of Lisa: Definitive Edition, were released on July 18, 2023.

The Little Acre	Set in 1950's Ireland, The Little Acre tells the story of a small family. The player controls Aidan, a job-hunting engineer, and his daughter Lily. One morning Aidan goes missing and Lily decides to go and find him. During her search, she discovers an entrance-way to a mysterious world in the family's garden shed.

Little Big Workshop	Little Big Workshop is a construction and management simulation video game in which the player designs and manages their own factory to produce various goods. The final aim is to create the most successful and efficient factory possible. The player plans products via a blueprint menu where they can designate which processes are placed on what workbenches. This is also where the player has to meet the certain quality levels for products, which may involve using more expensive materials. The player has to manage workers to ensure they do not get overworked by using break rooms. Research and development points can be unlocked by meeting certain goal thresholds. These points can be used to unlock advancements like more materials, better deals with clients, specialist workers which increase efficiency on specific material processes (i.e. wood specialists increase speed of which wood processes occur), and additional tiers of production. The computer-controlled CEO of Nemesis Incorporated will sometimes disrupt the player's production by manipulating the market or dispatching spies.

LittleBigPlanet 3	LittleBigPlanet 3 is a puzzle-platform game developed by Sumo Digital and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4. It was released worldwide through November and December 2014, and it is the third entry in the main LittleBigPlanet series, and sixth entry overall. It was announced at Sony's E3 2014 media briefing on 9 June 2014. It was developed primarily by Sumo Digital, with XDev and series creator Media Molecule assisting in an undisclosed capacity.

Little Devil Inside	Little Devil Inside is an upcoming action-adventure video game developed and published by Neostream Interactive. The game's single-player and co-operative multiplayer modes both follow the professional and personal lives of explorers searching for monsters & supernatural events in a 19th-century-inspired world. It is planned for initial release on Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5, and will be followed by Nintendo Switch and Xbox One shortly after.

Little Misfortune	Despite its initial child-friendly introduction, Misfortune quickly finds herself exposing or being exposed to numerous elements of shock humor, including death, alcoholism, substance abuse, suicide, nudity, profanity, grave robbery, strip clubs, demons, traffic collisions, cruelty to animals, and the grim reaper.

Little Nightmares	Little Nightmares takes place in a 2.5D world. The player traverses the world through various platformer elements, occasionally being blocked by puzzles that must be solved to proceed. The player is generally rendered helpless in their environment due to the lack of any combat abilities and must rely on stealth and the environment to hide from the various enemies. On a few occasions, the player is given tools that even the odds slightly and allow them to fight back and kill them.

Little Nightmares II	Little Nightmares II is a puzzle-platform horror adventure game developed by Tarsier Studios and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. It may be played as a self-contained experience. The story follows Mono, who must work together with Six, the protagonist from the previous game, to survive the horrors of the Pale City and discover its dark secrets. The game was released for Google Stadia, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows and Xbox One on 11 February 2021. An upgraded version, titled Little Nightmares II: Enhanced Edition, was developed by Supermassive Games and released on 25 August 2021 for PlayStation 5, Windows and Xbox Series X/S.

Little Town Hero	Little Town Hero is a role-playing video game developed and published by Game Freak. It was first released for the Nintendo Switch in October 2019 before being ported to PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Windows in 2020. It received mixed reviews from critics.

Little Witch Academia: Chamber of Time	Little Witch Academia: Chamber of Time is an action role-playing video game developed by A+ Games and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment, based on the anime franchise Little Witch Academia.

Livelock	The top-down twin stick shooter game has been described as similar to the Diablo series in gameplay, but with guns and in a post-apocalyptic setting.

Lock's Quest	On January 6, 2017, the German game ratings board Unterhaltungssoftware Selbstkontrolle (USK) rated Lock's Quest for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC which indicated that the publisher was developing a port for the game. and on 16 February 2017, THQ Nordic officially announced that they were developing a remaster for Lock's Quest scheduled for May 2017 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC with development by Digital Continue.

LocoRoco Remastered	Along the way, the LocoRoco can grow in size by eating special berries, and then can be split and rejoined to pass the LocoRoco through narrow spaces. The game's bright and colorful visuals and dynamic music soundtrack were hallmarks of the game, earning it several awards from the gaming press in 2006. While the game did not sell high volumes, its success led to the development of four other LocoRoco titles  two sequels for the PSP (PlayStation Portable)/PSP Go, a spin-off for the PlayStation 3 and a mobile version (called LocoRoco Mobile and LocoRoco Hi, depending on the market) for cellular (mobile) telephones.

LocoRoco 2 Remastered	Having successfully defeated the Moja Corps, the LocoRoco settled back into  their peaceful life. However, Bon Mucho, the Moja Boss, is not willing to accept defeat, so he devises a terrible song that can suck the life force out of living things, as a new attack on the LocoRoco. Armed with this fearsome song, the Moja boarded their meteorite and set off once more on a mission to conquer the LocoRoco planet. Back there, the LocoRoco finds the new MuiMui house, but right after, the meteor comes crashing down onto a Nyokki, and the Mojas start attacking again (sucking the life force out of living things, and as usual, eating LocoRoco). The LocoRoco then set off on an even more epic journey to restore the life force into living things and defeat the Moja Corps.

Lode Runner Legacy	After the original game, a number of remakes, spin-offs and sequels were published in the Lode Runner series for different computers and consoles by different developers and publishers. Tozai Games holds the copyright and trademark rights.

Lone Survivor: The Director's Cut	Lone Survivor is a post-apocalyptic survival horror game with retro-styled 2D graphics in which the player controls a nameless protagonist following directions provided by the character's apparent hallucinations. When exploring the game world the player will discover items, keys and food. The correct use of each item and key must be determined in order to solve the game's puzzles. Certain food types can be improved by cooking and/or combining them with others. Two-way mirrors found in the game world are used to teleport back to the survivor's apartment. Players possess a flashlight with which to navigate the game world; using the flashlight drains batteries; replacements can be found by scavenging. Mutants must be avoided or killed; a pistol must be found in order to attack mutants, but ammunition is scarce. When the pistol's magazine is empty the survivor automatically loads a new magazine, leaving him open to attack during the process. Mutants are attracted to light and noises, but the player can sneak past by hiding in the shadows. The game features a map for players to navigate with, however, the game does not pause when the game's menus or map are accessed, leaving the survivor vulnerable.

The Long Dark	The Long Dark is a first-person survival video game developed and published by Hinterland Studios. The player assumes the role of crash-landed bush pilot Will Mackenzie who must survive the frigid Canadian wilderness after a geomagnetic storm. The game received seed financing from the Canada Media Fund, and further funding was secured through a successful Kickstarter campaign in October 2013.

Loot Rascals	Hollow Ponds announced Loot Rascals for PC and PlayStation 4 on May 25, 2016, with a release date of early 2017.

Lords of the Fallen	Lords of the Fallen is an action role-playing video game developed by Deck13 and CI Games. It was released in October 2014 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Windows.  A mobile version of the game, which features one-to-one swipe combat controls, was released on 9 February 2017 for iOS and Android, as a paid game with in-app purchases. A reboot of the same name was released in October 2023.

The Lost Child	In May 2013, it was announced that Sawaki Takeyasu, creator, director and lead artist of El Shaddai: Ascension of the Metatron, had purchased the rights to the El Shaddai IP from UTV Ignition Games with the intention of expanding it under his newly-formed development studio Crim. In 2017 at a Tokyo Sandbox presentation, Takeyasu teased a "major announcement" relating to the IP to be made within the next two weeks, which was officially revealed ten days later in Famitsu as The Lost Child, a role-playing game for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita set in the El Shaddai universe.

Lost Ember	Lost Ember is a third-person adventure game.  Players control an amnesiac wolf.  A spirit asks the player for help in reaching the afterlife and explains that people disqualified from entering the afterlife are reincarnated as animals.  The player and the spirit set off to find out why the player is barred from the afterlife and to assist the spirit.  The game does not have traditional puzzles, though players may encounter impassable terrain.  To continue, players can possess other animals they encounter.  Possessing a bird allows players to fly over terrain inaccessible to the wolf, and fish can swim across lakes.  By exploring nearby ruins, the player and spirit learn more about their past lives and the civilization they came from.  Unlocking these memories allows them to progress through the game and enter the afterlife.

Lost in Random	In the Kingdom of Random, the fate of all individuals is decided by a cursed black die when they reach the age of 12. Even's sister, Odd, is abducted by the wicked Queen of  Random. As Even journeys across the six realms of Random to rescue her sister, she meets Dicey, a sentient die who has lost nearly all of its pips. In a world which is governed by game rules, Even will slowly understand the randomness of life with the help of Dicey.

Lost Judgment	Lost Judgment is an action-adventure video game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega. It was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S on September 24, 2021, for Amazon Luna on March 31, 2022, and for Windows on September 14, 2022. A sequel to the 2018 game Judgment (a spin-off of the Like a Dragon series), the game focuses on private detective Takayuki Yagami as he investigates a criminal accused of both sexual harassment and murder. Yagami manages to see the connection between the suspect Akihiro Ehara and his links with a series of murders committed against bullies in Kamuroch and Isezaki Ijincho. The game builds on the action sequences from the first game while revising its stealth elements. Yagami uses two returning fighting styles plus the new aikido-based Snake.

Lost Sphear	Lost Sphear plays as a spiritual successor to I Am Setsuna, which in itself was created to emulate the style of 1990's JRPGs. The game features a retooled variant of the Active Time Battle system found in I Am Setsuna, Chrono Trigger, and older Final Fantasy titles.

Lovecraft's Untold Stories	Players control one of five protagonists, each of whom has different strengths, and fight against Lovecraftian enemies, including cultists, Mi-Go, and the monstrous penguins featured from At the Mountains of Madness.  Players must investigate the Cthulhu Mythos while fighting off these threats.  Encountering elements of the Mythos cause characters to lose sanity, but sanity can be recovered by consumable items.  Lovecraft's Untold Stories blends elements of role-playing, adventure, shooter, and roguelite games.  The levels are procedurally generated.

Lovers in a Dangerous Spacetime	Lovers in a Dangerous Spacetime is a space shooter video game developed by Asteroid Base for Microsoft Windows, OS X, PlayStation 4, Linux, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch. The project is part of the ID@Xbox program. The game's title is a reference to the Bruce Cockburn song "Lovers in a Dangerous Time".

Lumines Remastered	Lumines: Puzzle Fusion (pronounced as "Loo-min-ess") is a 2004 puzzle game developed by Q Entertainment and published for the PlayStation Portable by Bandai in Japan and by Ubisoft elsewhere. The objective of the game is to arrange descending two-colored 22 blocks to create 22 squares of matching color. A vertical line known as the "time line" sweeps across the field, erases completed squares, and awards points. Each stage has a skin that affects the background, block colors, music, and the speed of the time line.

Lumo	In Lumo, the player completes a series of puzzles in over 400 rooms to complete the game. The game places a heavy emphasis on exploration and discovering secrets and contains multiple hidden challenges and minigames.

Machinarium	Machinarium is a puzzle point-and-click adventure game developed by Amanita Design. It was released on 16 October 2009 for Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux, on 8 September 2011 for iPad 2 on the App Store, on 21 November 2011 for BlackBerry PlayBook, on 10 May 2012 for Android, on 6 September 2012 on PlayStation 3's PlayStation Network in Europe, on 9 October 2012 in North America and on 18 October 2012 in Asia, and was also released for PlayStation Vita on 26 March 2013 in North America, on 1 May 2013 in Europe and on 7 May 2013 in Asia. Demos for Windows, Mac and Linux were made available on 30 September 2009. A future release for the Wii's WiiWare service was cancelled as of November2011 due to WiiWare's 40MB limit.

Mad Max	Mad Max is an action-adventure video game based on the Mad Max franchise. Developed by Avalanche Studios and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, it was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in 2015. Feral Interactive published the game's Linux and macOS versions. In the game, players control Max Rockatansky as he progresses through the wasteland building a vehicle, the "Magnum Opus", to do battle with a gang of raiders, led by Scabrous Scrotus, and to reach the storied "Plains of Silence", where he hopes to find peace. Mad Max emphasizes vehicular combat, in which players can use weapon and armor upgrades on their car to fight enemies. It is set in an open post-apocalyptic wasteland consisting of deserts, canyons, and caves.

Mad Rat Dead	It received generally positive reviews on release, with critics praising its music and visuals, but story and level design drew mixed response.

Made in Abyss: Binary Star Falling into Darkness	Made in Abyss (Japanese: , Hepburn: Meido in Abisu) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Akihito Tsukushi. It has been serialized online in Takeshobo's digital publication Web Comic Gamma since October 2012, and has been collected in 12 tankbon volumes. The story follows an orphaned girl named Riko, who finds and befriends a part-robot boy named Reg, and descends with him into the titular "Abyss" that leads deep into the Earth, in hopes of exploring it and finding her mother.

Madden NFL 15	Due to the late release of the game, EA created a much smaller bracket than the previous years with a cover vote. It featured a 169-player bracket with offensive and defensive players. On June 6, 2014, Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman was announced as the official cover athlete. Also featured in the bracket were Alshon Jeffery, Jimmy Graham, Demaryius Thomas, Luke Kuechly, Colin Kaepernick, Nick Foles, Cam Newton, Antonio Brown, Jamaal Charles, A. J. Green, LeSean McCoy, T. Y. Hilton, Andrew Luck, Eddie Lacy and Alfred Morris. The official cover image was released on the NFL's Instagram page.

Madden NFL 16	The game was announced in late July 2015 on the EA Sports website. On May 13, 2015, EA announced that like Madden NFL 15, Madden Ultimate Team fans would be able to purchase the Madden NFL 16 Deluxe Edition, which would include the game along with $50 worth of Ultimate Team packs, for an extra $40. It was also announced that EA was working extensively on aesthetics, with new player spotlights, dynamic goals and achievements, and innovative on and off-the-field cameras.

Madden NFL 17	On May 12, 2016, EA Sports uploaded a trailer to YouTube. They also revealed the new features that were added to the game, which includes an upgrade of the Ground Game, a redesigned and better Franchise Mode, "Madden 365", a new Ball Carrier UI Prompts help teach moves available to you, while the new Path Assist helps you navigate and anticipate down field and more. They have also announced that they would hire new announcers, Brandon Gaudin and Charles Davis.

Madden NFL 18	Madden NFL 18 is an American football sports video game based on the National Football League, developed and published by EA Sports for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. The 29th installment of the Madden NFL series, the game features New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady on the cover, the second straight year a Patriots player has had the distinction, following tight end Rob Gronkowski. 

Madden NFL 19	Pittsburgh Steelers wide receiver Antonio Brown is the cover athlete of the standard edition of the game, while Pro Football Hall of Fame wide receiver Terrell Owens is on the cover of the "Hall of Fame" version, featured in a Dallas Cowboys uniform.

Madden NFL 20	Kansas City Chiefs quarterback and 2018 NFL MVP Patrick Mahomes was unveiled as the cover athlete alongside the game's announcement on April 25, 2019, becoming the first player for the Kansas City Chiefs to be on the cover of a Madden NFL video game.

Madden NFL 21	A mobile version, titled Madden NFL 21 Mobile, was released on iOS and Android a few weeks before the game's initial launch as a full rework of the 2014 mobile game Madden NFL Mobile.

Madden NFL 22	Madden NFL 22 is an American football video game based on the National Football League (NFL), developed by EA Tiburon and published by Electronic Arts. It is an installment of the long-running Madden NFL series, and was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Stadia. NFL quarterbacks Patrick Mahomes of the Kansas City Chiefs and Tom Brady of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who played against each other the previous season in Super Bowl LV, were both featured on the cover of the game, the first joint cover since Madden NFL 10. Like recent previous installments of the series, the game received mixed reviews from critics, with praise for the attempts to improve Franchise mode but criticism at glitches and the lack of innovation elsewhere. This was the last Madden game released before the death of John Madden, the franchise's namesake.

Madden NFL 23	Madden NFL 23 was released in August for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. It marked the series debut on the Epic Games Store. Former head coach and broadcaster John Madden, whom the game was named after, is the cover star in honor of his death in December 2021. The game received mixed reviews from critics, who declared an improvement from the previous games.

Madden NFL 24	Madden NFL 24 is an American football video game developed by EA Tiburon and published by EA Sports. Based on the National Football League (NFL), it is an installment in the Madden NFL series and follows Madden NFL 23. Buffalo Bills quarterback Josh Allen is the cover athlete for the game.

Madden NFL 25	In Connected Franchise career mode, players own and manage a National Football League (NFL) team. Players can also move teams to new cities, including international markets like Toronto, Mexico City, Dublin and London, or revive historic teams like the Houston Oilers or the London Monarchs from NFL Europe. It was the first time this happened since Madden NFL 12 for the franchise and team relocation since Madden NFL 09.

Mafia: Definitive Edition	Mafia: Definitive Edition is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Hangar 13 and published by 2K. It is a remake of the 2002 video game Mafia. Like the original game, the remake is set within the fictional city of Lost Heaven, Illinois, during the 1930s, and follows the rise and fall of Tommy Angelo, a Sicilian American cab driver-turned-gangster, within the Salieri crime family.               

Mafia II: Definitive Edition	Mafia II is a 2010 action-adventure game developed by 2K Czech and published by 2K. It was released on 24 August 2010 for PlayStation 3, Windows, and Xbox 360. The game is a standalone sequel to 2002's Mafia, and the second installment in the Mafia series. Set within the fictional city of Empire Bay from 1945 to 1951, the story follows Vito Scaletta, a young Sicilian-American mobster and war veteran, who becomes caught in a power struggle among the city's Mafia crime families while attempting to pay back his father's debts and secure a better lifestyle.

Mafia III: Definitive Edition	Mafia III is a 2016 action-adventure video game developed by Hangar 13 and published by 2K. It was released in October 2016 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, in May 2017 for macOS, and in October 2021 for Google Stadia. It is the sequel to Mafia II and the third installment in the Mafia series. Set within the fictional city of New Bordeaux (based on New Orleans) in 1968, the story follows former criminal and Vietnam veteran Lincoln Clay, who is forced to return to a life of crime to help his adoptive family settle problems with the local branch of the Mafia. After the Mafia betray and murder his family, Lincoln embarks on a quest for revenge while slowly building a criminal empire and seizing power from other criminal organisations in the city.

Mafia III	Mafia III is a 2016 action-adventure video game developed by Hangar 13 and published by 2K. It was released in October 2016 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, in May 2017 for macOS, and in October 2021 for Google Stadia. It is the sequel to Mafia II and the third installment in the Mafia series. Set within the fictional city of New Bordeaux (based on New Orleans) in 1968, the story follows former criminal and Vietnam veteran Lincoln Clay, who is forced to return to a life of crime to help his adoptive family settle problems with the local branch of the Mafia. After the Mafia betray and murder his family, Lincoln embarks on a quest for revenge while slowly building a criminal empire and seizing power from other criminal organisations in the city.

Mages of Mystralia	The game is set in the land of Mystralia and follows Zia, a mage who discovers her magical powers at the beginning of the game. After being exiled from her village due to unintentionally causing turmoil through her powers, she meets a character self-described as the Mentor, who convinces her to travel to a mage sanctuary to improve her skills as a mage. Zia is eventually tasked with preventing a war between an army of trolls and the anti-mage Kingdom of Mystralia, whilst learning more of her destiny and uncovering a more sinister plot.

The Magic Circle: Gold Edition	The Magic Circle is a video game developed and published by American indie team Question for Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux.

Magicka 2	The opening of Magicka 2 starts with a backstory, how 1 through 4 wizards from the Order of Magick saved Midgrd from certain doom multiple times (the story of Magicka). Due to this success, the Order of Magick decided to expand by founding multiple wizard schools all over Midgrd. However, conflict between the schools grew, eventually sparking the Wizard Wars. The aftermath of the wars resulted in many wizards decimated, and those who survived tread the shadows of their former glory. Without wizards destroying the human's way of life, the Golden Age of Man has begun. During this period of calmness, a seer named Nostrir the Soothslayer has prophesied that a child, infused with magick from the magickal residue caused by the Wizard Wars, was born somewhere in Midgrd. This very child, once of age, will lead Midgrd into a better place, free of suffering. However, the prophecy also told that an opposing force would seek to prevent the child from realizing her power. Vlad, back from his multi-decade vacation, returns to Aldrheim only to find the castle in ruins. Hearing Nostrir's prophecy, Vlad decides to guide 1 through 4 wizards from the ruins of Aldrheim to save the prophesied child.

The Making of Karateka	Karateka is a 1984 martial arts action game for the Apple II by Jordan Mechner. It is his first published game and was created while he was attending Yale University. The game was published in North America by Broderbund and in Europe by Ariolasoft. Along with Karate Champ and Yie-Ar Kung Fu (both also released in 1984), Karateka is one of the earliest martial arts fighting games. It was inspired by Japanese culture (Ukiyo-e art, Akira Kurosawa films, and manga comics) and by early Disney animated films and silent pictures.

Maldita Castilla EX	Maldita Castilla (lit. "Maledict Castile"), known in North America and PAL regions as Cursed Castilla, is a platform game developed by Locomalito and released in December 2012. The game is primarily based on myths from Spain, European folklore, and cavalry novels. Maldita Castilla was developed as a tribute to Ghosts'n Goblins.

Malicious Fallen	The game is meant to offer a simple play experience. The main goal is to defeat a dangerous group of enemies known as the Keepers, and a great evil entity called the Malicious. There is no actual stage progression in Malicious. Instead, all stages start the player directly in fights against a boss and their subordinates.

Maneater	Maneater was released for Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in May 2020, for Xbox Series X/S and PlayStation 5 in November, and for Nintendo Switch in May 2021. A downloadable content pack for the game, Truth Quest, was released in August 2021. Set after the main story, Truth Quest follows the shark as it travels to a mysterious experiment site and confronts a radioactive monster causing chaos around Port Clovis.

Manifold Garden	The game takes place in a "universe with a different set of physical laws" where the player can manipulate gravity, being able to "turn walls into floors". The player must solve puzzles using the world's geometry in addition to devices within the architecture of the world. To aid the player, the world's tone takes on one of six colors depending on which direction they have manipulated gravity. Several facets of the game's world may only be interacted with when the gravity is oriented directly, with these objects sharing one of the six colors.

Mark McMorris Infinite Air	Mark McMorris Infinite Air is a snowboarding video game developed by HB Studios and published by Maximum Games. First announced in March 2016, it was released on October 25, 2016 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It is the first open-world, physics-based snowboarding video game. It was built in partnership and close collaboration with Olympic snowboarder Mark McMorris.

Mars Horizon	The player first selects a space agency: USA, ESA, Soviet Union (later Russia), China, and Japan. Public support determines the agencys budget, and a tech tree unlocks missions, buildings, and rocket parts. The missions are milestones from the space race, such as launching the first satellite, the first human to outer space, the first probes to the various planets in the Solar System, the Moon landing, and so on. During these missions the player must complete minigames to progress the mission. While these mini-games occur, the player is given quotas they must fulfill by trading resources (such as navigation, communications, power, and data) for others, facing increasingly difficult quotas with more factors used for trading resources to the mini-games added the further the player progresses, including radiation, heat, and drift. If these quotas arent met the mission will fail. The later stages of the game focus on proposed missions that have not been achieved yet, such as the first sample-return mission from Mars. The game ends with the first human mission to Mars, with the agency that completes this first automatically winning.

Marvel Heroes Omega	On April 5, 2017, a console version was announced to be in production at the time for both the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One that was branded as a free-to-play game under the title Marvel Heroes Omega. This version was released on June 30, 2017.

Marvel Puzzle Quest: Dark Reign	It is available for free on the App Store for iOS, Google Play for Android and Steam for Microsoft Windows. A high-definition port of the game developed by WayForward Technologies was released on PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, and Xbox 360 in 2015; and Xbox One in 2016. The game was released on Amazon Kindle in 2016.

Marvel: Ultimate Alliance	Ultimate Alliance is set within the fictional Marvel Universe and features many of the superheroes, supervillains, and supporting characters that appear in publications by Marvel Comics. It shares many similarities with Raven Software's previous Marvel titles, X-Men Legends and X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse, in that it allows players to select from its vast cast to create the ultimate superhero team. The game features an original plot in which the heroes of the Marvel Universe must join forces to defeat Doctor Doom and his Masters of Evil and foil their plans for global domination.

Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2	Unlike the first game, which featured an original plot, Ultimate Alliance 2's storyline is mostly based on the Secret War and Civil War story arcs from the Marvel comics. After a series of devastating attacks on the United States, the American government passes the Superhero Registration Act, which forces all super-powered individuals to act under official regulation, in an effort to reduce the chaos that results from their battles. The superhero community is left divided, as some, including Iron Man, support the Act, while others, such as Captain America, oppose it. The two factions quickly find themselves in conflict with each other, all the while a new enemy threatens global peace. The game features two distinct storylines depending on which faction the player selects at the start, which cross over on several instances.

Marvel vs. Capcom: Infinite	Marvel vs. Capcom: Infinite is a fighting video game developed and published by Capcom. It is the sixth main entry in the Marvel vs. Capcom series of crossover games. Like previous installments, players control characters from both the Marvel Comics and Capcom universes to compete in tag team battles. Infinite features two-on-two fights, as opposed to the three-on-three format used in its preceding titles. The series' character-assist moves have been removed; instead, the game incorporates a tag-based combo system, which allows players to instantly switch between their two characters to form continuous combos. It also introduces a new gameplay mechanic in the form of the Infinity Stones, which temporarily bestow players with unique abilities and stat boosts depending on the type of stone selected.

Mass Effect: Andromeda	Mass Effect: Andromeda is a 2017 action role-playing video game developed by BioWare and published by Electronic Arts. It is the fourth major entry in the Mass Effect series and was released in March 2017 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. The game is set within the Andromeda Galaxy during the 29th century, where humanity is planning to populate new home worlds as part of a strategy called the Andromeda Initiative. The player assumes the role of either Scott or Sara Ryder, an inexperienced military recruit who joins the Initiative and wakes up in Andromeda following a 634-year sleeper ship journey. Events transpire that result in Ryder becoming humanity's Pathfinder, who is tasked with finding a new home world for humanity while also dealing with an antagonistic alien species known as the Kett, and uncovering the secrets of a mysterious synthetic intelligence species known as the Remnant.

Mass Effect Legendary Edition	Mass Effect Legendary Edition is a compilation of the video games in the Mass Effect trilogy: Mass Effect (2007), Mass Effect 2 (2010), and Mass Effect 3 (2012). It was developed by BioWare and published by Electronic Arts. All three games were remastered, with visual enhancements, technical improvements, and gameplay adjustments. Mass Effect, the first game of the trilogy, received more extensive upgrades than its counterparts, specifically with regard to graphics, combat mechanics, vehicle handling, and loading times.

Masters of Anima	The plot follows Otto, a newly inducted member of a guild of magicians known as "shapers". The shapers' guild is attacked by the nefarious Zahr, who uses forbidden magics to kidnap the prime shaper, Ana. Otto must use the magic of the shapers to rescue Ana so that she can restore the world to its proper order.

Matterfall	Matterfall is a side-scrolling shooter video game developed by Housemarque and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. It was released worldwide for PlayStation 4 in August 2017.

Max: The Curse of Brotherhood	Max: The Curse of Brotherhood is a puzzle-platform video game developed by Press Play for Xbox One, Microsoft Windows, Xbox 360, Nintendo Switch and later on PlayStation 4. The game was announced during Microsoft's E3 2013 press event. It is a sequel to Press Play's previous work, the 2010 game Max & the Magic Marker.

McDroid	McDroid is a tower defense game.

MediEvil	MediEvil is a 2019 action-adventure game developed by Other Ocean Emeryville and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. The player controls the protagonist, Sir Daniel Fortesque, through a series of levels, using various weapons to fight enemies as well as encountering various non-playable characters. It is a remake of MediEvil, which was originally developed by British video game developer SCE Cambridge Studio and released for the PlayStation in 1998. 

Mega Man 11	Mega Man 11 is an action-platform game developed and published by Capcom. The game is an entry in the original Mega Man series, and was released worldwide for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in October 2018. The game was ported to Amazon Luna on September 9, 2021. The game brings back several features such as voice acting and a 2.5D graphic style from previous games throughout the Mega Man franchise.

Mega Man Legacy Collection	The first Mega Man Legacy Collection was released in 2015, followed by a second volume in 2017; together, they compile the first 10 numbered entries in the original Mega Man series. These were followed by the Mega Man X Legacy Collection in 2018, which features all eight numbered Mega Man X titles split between two releases. In 2020, the Mega Man Zero/ZX Legacy Collection was released, which includes all four of the Mega Man Zero games and both Mega Man ZX games. In 2023, Mega Man Battle Network Legacy Collection was released, which include all six main games from the Mega Man Battle Network series, including both versions of later titles, for a total of 10 games split between two releases.

Mega Man Legacy Collection 2	The first Mega Man Legacy Collection was released in 2015, followed by a second volume in 2017; together, they compile the first 10 numbered entries in the original Mega Man series. These were followed by the Mega Man X Legacy Collection in 2018, which features all eight numbered Mega Man X titles split between two releases. In 2020, the Mega Man Zero/ZX Legacy Collection was released, which includes all four of the Mega Man Zero games and both Mega Man ZX games. In 2023, Mega Man Battle Network Legacy Collection was released, which include all six main games from the Mega Man Battle Network series, including both versions of later titles, for a total of 10 games split between two releases.

Mega Man X Legacy Collection	The first Mega Man Legacy Collection was released in 2015, followed by a second volume in 2017; together, they compile the first 10 numbered entries in the original Mega Man series. These were followed by the Mega Man X Legacy Collection in 2018, which features all eight numbered Mega Man X titles split between two releases. In 2020, the Mega Man Zero/ZX Legacy Collection was released, which includes all four of the Mega Man Zero games and both Mega Man ZX games. In 2023, Mega Man Battle Network Legacy Collection was released, which include all six main games from the Mega Man Battle Network series, including both versions of later titles, for a total of 10 games split between two releases.

Mega Man X Legacy Collection 2	The first Mega Man Legacy Collection was released in 2015, followed by a second volume in 2017; together, they compile the first 10 numbered entries in the original Mega Man series. These were followed by the Mega Man X Legacy Collection in 2018, which features all eight numbered Mega Man X titles split between two releases. In 2020, the Mega Man Zero/ZX Legacy Collection was released, which includes all four of the Mega Man Zero games and both Mega Man ZX games. In 2023, Mega Man Battle Network Legacy Collection was released, which include all six main games from the Mega Man Battle Network series, including both versions of later titles, for a total of 10 games split between two releases.

Mega Man Zero/ZX Legacy Collection	The first Mega Man Legacy Collection was released in 2015, followed by a second volume in 2017; together, they compile the first 10 numbered entries in the original Mega Man series. These were followed by the Mega Man X Legacy Collection in 2018, which features all eight numbered Mega Man X titles split between two releases. In 2020, the Mega Man Zero/ZX Legacy Collection was released, which includes all four of the Mega Man Zero games and both Mega Man ZX games. In 2023, Mega Man Battle Network Legacy Collection was released, which include all six main games from the Mega Man Battle Network series, including both versions of later titles, for a total of 10 games split between two releases.

Megadimension Neptunia VII	The game begins with Neptune and Nepgear being transported from the Hyper Dimension to the post-apocalyptic Zero Dimension, where they team up with local CPU Uzume Tennouboshi to defeat the giant Dark CPUs and return home. They eventually uncover a scheme that threatens both dimensions.

Mega Mall Story	Having similar gameplay to Tiny Tower, the game allows players to construct their own mall  and gain popularity by managing the resources correctly.

Megaquarium	Players manage an aquarium.  Based on in-game information, players must determine which kinds of fish can be put in the same tank.  For example, predatory fish must be separated from their prey.  Players also manage technical issues, such as water filtration systems.  Staff, hired by the player, maintain the aquarium.  Staff can not be controlled directly, but they can be given instructions, which they carry out on their own.  Customers must be kept happy, such as by providing them with refreshment, and they do not like seeing filters or other machinery, necessitating hiding it out of view but within a workable distance of the tanks.  Gameplay supports both campaigns, which act as a tutorial, and a sandbox mode.  When zooming in closely, players can experience their aquarium like the customers.

Megaton Rainfall	The plot revolves around an intergalactic superbeing that has been entrusted by its creator with the responsibility of protecting planet Earth from an imminent alien invasion.

Megaton Musashi	In the near future, 99.9% of humanity was nearly wiped out by an unknown alien race known as "Dracters", which have drilled a hole through the planet and terra-forming Earth into a more suitable place for its species. This forces the surviving 1% of mankind to seek refuge in heavily-fortified shelters and having their memories of the invasion repressed, allowing the unknowing survivors to live in peace while the unified world government and its forces tries to fight back against the Dracters using armored mechs known as "Rogues", seemingly with no avail.

Melty Blood: Type Lumina	Most of the gameplay systems were carried over from the previous Melty Blood games, except Guard Meter and Moon Styles.

Memories Off Historia Vol. 1	With the bankruptcy of KID in 2006, the development of Memories Off #5: Encore was cancelled. It also marked a temporary halt to any development of the game series. However, after Cyberfront took over the brand, development resumed and Memories Off #5: Encore was released on July 12, 2007. However, as of November30, 2007, 5pb. Games has acquired exclusive rights of the series from Cyberfront and all future development of the series will be handled by 5pb. Games.

Memories Off Historia Vol. 2	With the bankruptcy of KID in 2006, the development of Memories Off #5: Encore was cancelled. It also marked a temporary halt to any development of the game series. However, after Cyberfront took over the brand, development resumed and Memories Off #5: Encore was released on July 12, 2007. However, as of November30, 2007, 5pb. Games has acquired exclusive rights of the series from Cyberfront and all future development of the series will be handled by 5pb. Games.

Memories Off: Innocent Fille	With the bankruptcy of KID in 2006, the development of Memories Off #5: Encore was cancelled. It also marked a temporary halt to any development of the game series. However, after Cyberfront took over the brand, development resumed and Memories Off #5: Encore was released on July 12, 2007. However, as of November30, 2007, 5pb. Games has acquired exclusive rights of the series from Cyberfront and all future development of the series will be handled by 5pb. Games.

Mercenary Kings	Mercenary Kings is a side-scrolling run and gun video game similar to games like SNK's Metal Slug series. Players can jump, crouch, roll, shoot in four directions and use a short range frontal melee attack to make their way through 100+ missions with a variety of enemies, bosses, and locations. Mercenary Kings offers up to four player co-op with online or local split screen play.

The Messenger	The Messenger is a 2018 action-platform game created by indie developer Sabotage Studio and published by Devolver Digital. The player controls the eponymous ninja, who is appointed by a great hero to deliver a scroll. As the Messenger explores levels and defeats enemies, he gains a currency called Time Shards used to purchase useful upgrades and abilities. The game begins as a linear adventure featuring elements of time travel, with the audio and visuals changing from an 8-bit style to 16-bit to represent the ninja's journey from the past to the future. In the second half, The Messenger becomes a Metroidvania-style game where the player revisits previous levels to find key items.  

Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes	Ground Zeroes offers players new sneaking and traversal methods compared to its predecessors, as well as the choice in what order the story events take place by selecting missions in any order they chose. The game was originally developed as a mission for The Phantom Pain, but an extended development time resulted in Kojima splitting the specific portion of the game off into a stand-alone product so that players could get early access to Metal Gear Solid V.

Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain	The game is played from a third-person perspective in an open world which can be explored either on foot or by modes of transport. Snake can use a wide repertoire of weapons and items and receive assistance from several AI companions, allowing the player to combat enemies either stealthily or directly. Enemy soldiers and resources found in the world can be transported to Snake's headquarters, allowing for its expansion and the development of further technology. The game includes two separate multiplayer modes, Metal Gear Online (also known as Metal Gear Online 3) and Forward Operating Bases (FOBs); the latter mode allows players to develop FOBs, which can then be invaded by other players.

Metal Gear Survive	Pre-release reception of Metal Gear Survive was generally negative, in response to its design and recent business decisions from Konami. Upon release, the game received mixed reviews from critics. Due to its low sales within the Metal Gear series, the game was considered to have underperformed commercially.

Metal Max: Code Zero	Set in a post-apocalyptic open world, the games in the Metal Max series are turn-based, nonlinear, vehicle combat, role-playing video games. There have been six Metal Max games and five Metal Saga games, in addition to remakes of several Metal Max titles. Notable installments in the series released for NES, Super NES, PlayStation 2, Nintendo DS and Nintendo 3DS; the series has had mobile and browser releases as well. Most titles only saw release in Japan, the first Metal Saga being the only console title that was localized for English markets. Some related manga and soundtracks were also released. The most recent mainline entry to the series is the 2018 PlayStation Vita and PlayStation 4 game, Metal Max Xeno, which received a remake in 2020 titled Metal Max Xeno: Reborn for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, and PlayStation 4. 

Metal Max Xeno	Metal Max Xeno ( , Metaru Makkusu Zeno) is a role-playing video game developed by Kadokawa Games, Cattle Call and 24Frame, and was released in Japan for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita in April 2018 by Kadokawa Games. The PlayStation 4 version was released in North America and Europe in September 2018. It is the sixth title in the original Metal Max main series, and the second title for Sony's PlayStation console, the first being PlayStation 2's Metal Saga. A remake, titled Metal Max Xeno: Reborn, was released in Japan for Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 in September 2020, and was released worldwide alongside a port for Microsoft Windows in June 2022.

Metal Max Xeno Reborn	Metal Max Xeno ( , Metaru Makkusu Zeno) is a role-playing video game developed by Kadokawa Games, Cattle Call and 24Frame, and was released in Japan for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita in April 2018 by Kadokawa Games. The PlayStation 4 version was released in North America and Europe in September 2018. It is the sixth title in the original Metal Max main series, and the second title for Sony's PlayStation console, the first being PlayStation 2's Metal Saga. A remake, titled Metal Max Xeno: Reborn, was released in Japan for Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 in September 2020, and was released worldwide alongside a port for Microsoft Windows in June 2022.

Metal Slug 3	The game was ported to the PlayStation 2, Xbox, Microsoft Windows, iOS, Android, Wii, PlayStation Portable, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Nintendo Switch.

Metal Wolf Chaos XD	Metal Wolf Chaos is a third-person shooter video game developed by FromSoftware. It originally released in 2004 in Japan for the Xbox. The player takes on the role of fictional United States President Michael Wilson piloting a mech to battle the rebelling military, led by fictional Vice President Richard Hawk. Wilson's mech can be equipped with up to eight weapons selected from a set of over a hundred. In each mission, the player battles through destructible environments, destroying all enemies they come across.

Metamorphosis	The game is based on Franz Kafka's literary work, including The Metamorphosis (1915) and The Trial (1925).

Metrico+	Metrico is a puzzle-platform game developed and published by indepdendent Dutch developer Digital Dreams for the PlayStation Vita. The music is by Dutch electronic music producer Palmbomen. It was released in North America on 5 August 2014, and in Europe on 6 August 2014. Metrico was initially available for free for members of PlayStation Plus.

Metro Exodus	Metro Exodus is a 2019 first-person shooter game developed by 4A Games and published by Deep Silver. The game is the third installment in the Metro video game series, which is based on Dmitry Glukhovsky's novels. It is a sequel to Metro: Last Light and the book Metro 2035, and follows protagonist Artyom and his crew as they flee the Moscow Metro and set off with their allies on an intercontinental journey to the Far East on a locomotive called Aurora. The story takes place over a year, during which Artyom visits locations such as the Volga River and the Caspian Sea. The game improves on the gameplay mechanics of Last Light; it includes several miniature open world locations and has linear levels like earlier games in the series.

Metro 2033 Redux	Metro 2033 is a 2010 first-person shooter survival horror video game developed by 4A Games and published by THQ. The story is based on Dmitry Glukhovsky's novel of the same name, where survivors of a nuclear war have taken refuge in the Metro tunnels of Moscow. Players control Artyom, a man who must save his home station from the dangers lurking within the Metro. In the game, players encounter human and mutant enemies, who can be killed with a variety of firearms. Players must also wear a gas mask to explore areas covered in fallout radiation, both underground and on the surface.

Metro: Last Light Redux	Metro: Last Light is a 2013 first-person shooter video game developed by 4A Games and published by Deep Silver. A sequel to the video game Metro 2033 and the second installment in the Metro series, its story follows Artyom, a young soldier living in the Moscow Metro after a devastating nuclear war. Tasked with finding the mysterious Dark Ones, Artyom must venture to different parts of the metro system, and the surface filled with radiated gases, and fight against different factions and mutated monsters. The game improves on various gameplay mechanics of 2033, and introduces elements such as weapon customization.

The Metronomicon: Slay the Dance Floor	The Metronomicon: Slay the Dance Floor combines elements from rhythm and role-playing genres. During battles, the player hit notes to the beat of the soundtrack while switching between their team of four heroes. Heroes cast spells and activate abilities by completing rhythm sequences in lanes that scroll over their heads while electronic and indie rock tracks play. Monsters appear on the right side of the screen while the music plays, new ones swapping in as others are knocked. Players must swap between tracks on-the-fly in order to heal, cast elemental damage spells and cast buffs and debuffs. Successfully hitting notes allows the player to launch attacks or defenses against different enemies throughout the songs and levels. The re-release (entitled "Slay the Dance Floor") added new playable characters, passive abilities, Endless Mode, and a cooperative option for all modes of the game.

Micro Machines World Series	Micro Machines World Series is a racing video game developed and published by Codemasters for Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One.

Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor	Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor is a 2014 action-adventure video game developed by Monolith Productions and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. An original story based on the legendarium created by J. R. R. Tolkien, the game takes place between the events of The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings film trilogies. The player controls Talion, a Gondorian Ranger who bonds with the wraith of the Elf Lord Celebrimbor, as the two set out to avenge the deaths of their loved ones. Players can engage in melee combat, and use wraith abilities to fight and manipulate enemies. The game introduces the Nemesis System, which allows the artificial intelligence of non-playable characters to remember their prior actions against the game's protagonist and react accordingly.

Mighty Goose	Development of Mighty Goose took two years, and overlapped the development of a game called Kunai. Richard Lems worked on the game alone for around half a year, and MP2 Games ported Mighty Goose to consoles. The team later hired a composer, QA team, and signed with Playism. The game took inspiration from Metal Slug, and an in-game level took inspiration from Mad Max. Mighty Goose received mixed reviews from critics.

Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: Mega Battle	The game takes players through the first two seasons of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers. Up to four players can play as any of the original Mighty Morphin Power Rangers (Jason, Zack, Trini, Kimberly, Billy or Tommy) and features Rita Repulsa's army of monsters.

Mighty No. 9	Mighty No. 9 is a 2016 action platform video game developed by Comcept, in conjunction with Inti Creates, and published by Deep Silver. The game was crowdfunded through Kickstarter and incorporated heavy input from the public. Mighty No. 9 closely resembles the early Mega Man series in both gameplay and character design, on which project lead Keiji Inafune worked, and is considered a spiritual successor.

Mighty Switch Force! Collection	A group of convicts called the "Hooligan Sisters" escape custody on Planet Land. As they escape, one of them breaks open a canister, which causes Planet Land to become infested with monsters. The "Galactic Penal Squad" contact "cybernetic peace officer" Patricia Wagon (voiced by Stephanie Komure), authorizing the use of her Siren Helmet and Pellet Shooter, in order to capture the criminals. Helping her along the way are General Gendarmor, a mechanical armor that can extract her from battles, Ugly Twitching Dog (U.T.D), who can create reload points, and HQ, who are monitoring her actions.

Minecraft: Bedrock Edition	Minecraft is a 2011 sandbox game developed by Mojang Studios and originally released in 2009. The game was created by Markus "Notch" Persson in the Java programming language. Following several early private testing versions, it was first made public in May 2009 before being fully released on November 18, 2011, with Notch stepping down and Jens "Jeb" Bergensten taking over development. Minecraft has become the best-selling video game in history, with over 300 million copies sold and nearly 140 million monthly active players as of 2023. It has been ported to several platforms. 

Minecraft Dungeons	Minecraft Dungeons is a 2020 dungeon crawler video game developed by Mojang Studios and Double Eleven and published by Xbox Game Studios. It is a spin-off of the sandbox video game Minecraft and was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in May 2020. It was also adapted into an arcade video game by Raw Thrills. The arcade version released in May 2021.

Minecraft: PlayStation 4 Edition	Minecraft is a 2011 sandbox game developed by Mojang Studios and originally released in 2009. The game was created by Markus "Notch" Persson in the Java programming language. Following several early private testing versions, it was first made public in May 2009 before being fully released on November 18, 2011, with Notch stepping down and Jens "Jeb" Bergensten taking over development. Minecraft has become the best-selling video game in history, with over 300 million copies sold and nearly 140 million monthly active players as of 2023. It has been ported to several platforms. 

Minecraft: Story Mode	Minecraft: Story Mode is  an episodic point-and-click video game developed and published by Telltale Games, based on Mojang Studios' sandbox video game Minecraft. The first five episodes were released between October 2015 through March 2016 and an additional three episodes were released as downloadable content (DLC) in mid-2016. A second season consisting of five episodes was released in 2017.

Minecraft: Story Mode - Season 2	Minecraft: Story Mode is  an episodic point-and-click video game developed and published by Telltale Games, based on Mojang Studios' sandbox video game Minecraft. The first five episodes were released between October 2015 through March 2016 and an additional three episodes were released as downloadable content (DLC) in mid-2016. A second season consisting of five episodes was released in 2017.

Mini Metro	Mini Metro is a puzzle strategy video game developed by New Zealand indie development team Dinosaur Polo Club. Players are tasked with constructing an efficient rail transit network for a rapidly growing city. The game's visual style makes use of bold colours and simple geometry to replicate the appearance of modern transit maps. The game uses a procedural audio system to generate sounds based on the player actions and transit network, with inspiration from works of minimal music.

Mini Motor Racing X	Mini Motor Racing is an arcade-style racer with strong emphasis on fun over realism. Rather than controlling acceleration and braking, the user must instead master powerslides and timely nitrous boosts to succeed. Cars regularly crash into the environment and each other, but there is no vehicle damage. The game uses a modified version of the Unity physics engine to model these collisions.

Mirror's Edge Catalyst	Mirror's Edge Catalyst is a 2016 first-person action-adventure platform game developed by DICE and published by Electronic Arts. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in June 2016. It is a reboot of the 2008 game that focuses on protagonist Faith Connors.

Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid: Sakuretsu! Chorogon Breath	Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid (Japanese: , Hepburn: Kobayashi-san Chi no Meidoragon), also known as The Maid Dragon of Kobayashi-san is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Coolkyousinnjya. The series began serialization in Futabasha's Monthly Action magazine since May 2013 until 2024 when it was transferred to a new magazine after Monthly Action ended and is licensed in North America by Seven Seas Entertainment. Four spin-off manga have also been serialized in Monthly Action. 

MLB 14: The Show	Matt Vasgersian, Eric Karros, and Steve Lyons did the play-by-play action. Mike Carlucci returned as P.A. Announcer.

MLB 15: The Show	Matt Vasgersian, Eric Karros, and Steve Lyons return as commentators. Mike Carlucci returns as public address announcer. Legends can be used as free agents in the Franchise and Season modes in the game.

MLB The Show 16	MLB The Show 16 is a Major League Baseball video game developed by San Diego Studio and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. It is the eleventh entry of the MLB: The Show franchise, and was released on March 29, 2016, for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4. It is the first MLB: The Show entry to not have a portable version, and is the final version available for the PlayStation 3. Then Toronto Blue Jays third baseman and 2015 American League MVP winner Josh Donaldson is featured on the main cover for the game. He also appears on the separate Canadian cover edition, making him the first player to be on both the American and Canadian versions of the game. Jung-ho Kang of the Pittsburgh Pirates and Wei-Yin Chen of the Miami Marlins appear on the Korean and Taiwanese covers, respectively.

MLB The Show 17	MLB The Show 17, like the previous games in the series, is based on the sport of baseball; more specifically, it simulates the experience of MLB. Several game modes are included, such as "Road to The Show", in which the player creates a customizable player and plays throughout their career to the major leagues; "Franchise", in which the player controls an entire organization; and "Diamond Dynasty", in which the player creates a team of random players to compete against other players' teams. The game also has a licensed soundtrack with 12 songs.

MLB The Show 18	MLB The Show 18 is a baseball video game by San Diego Studio and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment, based on Major League Baseball (MLB). It is the thirteenth entry of the MLB: The Show franchise, and was released worldwide on March 27, 2018, for PlayStation 4. New York Yankees outfielder Aaron Judge is featured as the cover star for the U.S. version, while Toronto Blue Jays pitcher Marcus Stroman is on the cover of the Canadian version. A limited number of people were invited to a closed alpha, which began on December 22, 2017, until December 26, 2017, to test the online servers. Those who pre-ordered the game received access to the game four days early, able to pick up their copy of the game on March 23, 2018.

MLB The Show 19	Matt Vasgersian, Mark DeRosa and Dan Plesac call the play-by-plays. Heidi Watney joined the game as a sideline reporter and Alex Miniak replaces Mike Carlucci as the public address announcer.

MLB The Show 20	Upon release, MLB The Show 20 was generally well-received by critics, who praised the new fielding and hitting mechanics, and new features in the Diamond Dynasty mode, while criticism was given to technical issues at launch.

MLB The Show 21	Matt Vasgersian, Mark DeRosa and Dan Plesac return as play-by-play commentators for the last time, Heidi Watney as sideline reporter and Alex Miniak as public address commentator.

MLB The Show 22	For the second consecutive year, the Xbox versions of the game are available for Xbox Game Pass subscribers at no additional cost. People who purchased the MVP or Digital Deluxe editions received early access to the game starting April 1.

MLB The Show 23	For the third consecutive year, the Xbox versions of the game are available for Xbox Game Pass subscribers at no additional cost.

MLB The Show 24	Heidi Watney returns as sideline reporter and Alex Miniak, public address commentator.

Momodora: Reverie Under the Moonlight	Momodora: Reverie Under the Moonlight is an indie Metroidvania video game developed by rdein and published by Playism. The game was originally released on March 4, 2016, for Microsoft Windows. It is the fourth installment of the Momodora series that began in 2010 with Momodora I.

Monark	Monark is a tactical role-playing game with combat similar to Lost Dimension. Gameplay is split between the character evolving their own desires by exploring the school campus, and fighting monsters called "daemons" in the Otherworld.

Monkey King: Hero is Back	A prequel to the film titled Monkey King: Havoc in Heaven is currently in development.

Monopoly Deal	Players attempt to collect three complete sets of cards representing the properties from the original board game, either by playing them directly, stealing them from other players, swapping cards with other players, or collecting them as rent for other properties they already own. The cards in the 110-card deck represent properties and wild cards, various denominations of Monopoly money used to pay rent, and special action cards which can either be played for their effects or banked as money instead.

Monopoly Plus	Many unlicensed, non-commercial computer games based on Monopoly were distributed on bulletin board systems, public domain software disks and academic computer systems, and appeared as early as the late 1970s. At the time, Parker Brothers was unaware of this distribution until a user informed them of one version that stated "A Parker Brother game" on the title screen; the company then began enforcing its copyright and trademark on Monopoly.

Monster Boy and the Cursed Kingdom	Monster Boy and the Cursed Kingdom is a 2018 platform game developed by Game Atelier and published by FDG Entertainment. Part of the Wonder Boy series, it was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in December, for Windows in July 2019, for Stadia in July 2020, for PlayStation 5 in December 2021, and for Xbox Series X/S in August 2022. It was generally well received by critics.

Monster Energy Supercross	Monster Energy Supercross: The Official Videogame was first released on February 13, 2018, and featured the 2017 Monster Energy Supercross schedule, locale and riders. The introductory title featured a Career and a Track Editor mode. The Track Editor mode requires online access and allows the player to upload tracks for others to try. There is also a rewind-feature available during racing. Career mode allowed for racing on 250cc and 450cc Motocross Bikes. The annual revisions have added improved physics, graphics, an update of tracks and rider rosters. The third revision allowed for use of female avatars in the Rider Creation process.

Monster Energy Supercross 2	Monster Energy Supercross: The Official Videogame was first released on February 13, 2018, and featured the 2017 Monster Energy Supercross schedule, locale and riders. The introductory title featured a Career and a Track Editor mode. The Track Editor mode requires online access and allows the player to upload tracks for others to try. There is also a rewind-feature available during racing. Career mode allowed for racing on 250cc and 450cc Motocross Bikes. The annual revisions have added improved physics, graphics, an update of tracks and rider rosters. The third revision allowed for use of female avatars in the Rider Creation process.

Monster Energy Supercross 3	Monster Energy Supercross: The Official Videogame was first released on February 13, 2018, and featured the 2017 Monster Energy Supercross schedule, locale and riders. The introductory title featured a Career and a Track Editor mode. The Track Editor mode requires online access and allows the player to upload tracks for others to try. There is also a rewind-feature available during racing. Career mode allowed for racing on 250cc and 450cc Motocross Bikes. The annual revisions have added improved physics, graphics, an update of tracks and rider rosters. The third revision allowed for use of female avatars in the Rider Creation process.

Monster Energy Supercross 4	Monster Energy Supercross: The Official Videogame was first released on February 13, 2018, and featured the 2017 Monster Energy Supercross schedule, locale and riders. The introductory title featured a Career and a Track Editor mode. The Track Editor mode requires online access and allows the player to upload tracks for others to try. There is also a rewind-feature available during racing. Career mode allowed for racing on 250cc and 450cc Motocross Bikes. The annual revisions have added improved physics, graphics, an update of tracks and rider rosters. The third revision allowed for use of female avatars in the Rider Creation process.

Monster Hunter: World	Monster Hunter: World is a 2018 action role-playing game developed and published by Capcom. The fifth mainline installment in the Monster Hunter series, it was released worldwide for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in January 2018, with a Windows version following in August 2018. In the game, the player takes the role of a Hunter, tasked to hunt down and either kill or trap monsters that roam in one of several environmental spaces. If successful, the player is rewarded through loot consisting of parts from the monster and other elements that are used to craft weapons and armor, amongst other equipment. The game's core loop has the player crafting appropriate gear to be able to hunt down more difficult monsters, which in turn provide parts that lead to more powerful gear. Players may hunt alone or in a group of up to four players via the game's online multiplayer.

Monster Hunter Rise	Rise follows many of the new conventions established in Monster Hunter: World while also introducing new features and mechanics, including a new animal companion called a Palamute that can be used to ride across the map or into battle, and the use of Wirebugs to traverse the world and mount and ride certain monsters. The game received generally positive reviews upon release with critics praising the gameplay and its expansion of the mechanics introduced in World. It has sold more than 13 million copies worldwide since launch, making it the second best-selling game in the series. Sunbreak has sold more than 6 million copies since launch.

Moon Hunters	A co-op, roguelike action role-playing game that is described by the developer as a "personality test RPG", Moon Hunters lets up to four players choose from one of six different characters, each with their own strengths and weaknesses. They must set out on a dangerous journey to bring the moon back to the fantasy land of Issaria and stop the evil Sun Cult. The game's endings can differ widely depending on the choices the characters make during the journey, and the outcome of the final battle. The areas of the game are procedurally generated and will differ for each playthrough. However, information about past playthroughs is saved in the form of constellations.

Moonlighter	Moonlighter has the player manage their shop during the day and go exploring at night. Shop keeping involves managing goods and receiving money, which the player can invest to upgrade the town and add services like a potion-maker and a blacksmith. These town upgrades allow the player to craft weapons, armor, and health potions, hire a part-time worker to sell things during the day, as well as upgrade the characters' equipment. At night, the player can explore dungeons and confront hordes of enemies, which drop loot upon defeat; loot can also be found in chests once the player clears a room. The game is divided by four different dungeons, the Golem, Forest, Desert, and Tech dungeons.

Mordheim: City of the Damned	Mordheim: City of the Damned is based on the Mordheim tabletop game, which is a skirmish-oriented derivative of the larger Warhammer Fantasy wargames. Accordingly, the video game puts the player in control of a small warband that fights rival teams over resources around the titular city of Mordheim. At the start of the game, the player chooses a faction (Sisters of Sigmar, Mercenaries from the Empire, Skaven, or the Cult of the Possessed in the base game) and over the course of the game, is given to opportunity to improve their warband's strength by recruiting, leveling, improving and customizing a roster of combatants as well as their equipment. Losing battles can lead to permanent injuries or even death of the members of the player's warband, so the emphasis is on careful engagements and survival. In addition to a single-player campaign, players can pit their warbands against other players online.

Mortal Kombat X	Suggest me a fighting game?<mct>Mortal Kombat X is a 2015 fighting game developed by NetherRealm Studios and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. Versions for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 were also due to release, but both versions were cancelled. It is the tenth main installment in the Mortal Kombat series and a sequel to Mortal Kombat (2011), taking place 25 years later after the events of its predecessor. High Voltage Software developed the Windows version of the game, with Polish studio QLOC taking over the work on it shortly after the release of Kombat Pack 1.

Mortal Kombat 11	Upon release, the console versions of Mortal Kombat 11 received generally favorable reviews, which praised the gameplay, story, graphics, and improved netcode, but it received criticism for the presence of microtransactions and over-reliance on grinding. An expansion was released on May 26, 2020, entitled Aftermath. It includes an additional story mode, three new characters, new stages, and the return of stage fatalities and the friendship finishing move. An enhanced version of the game containing all downloadable content up to that point, titled Mortal Kombat 11: Ultimate, was released for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on November 17, 2020. A sequel, Mortal Kombat 1, was released on September 19, 2023.

Mortal Shell	Mortal Shell is a third-person action role-playing game focused on melee combat, where players control one of several "shell" characters with different playstyles.

Mother Russia Bleeds	Mother Russia Bleeds is a beat 'em up video game developed by France-based indie development studio Le Cartel Studio and published by Devolver Digital. The game was released worldwide for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux on 5 September 2016, PlayStation 4 on 3 December 2016 and for Nintendo Switch on 15 November 2018.

Mothergunship	The game allows cooperative gameplay online. It also has a gun crafting mechanism, which is essential to the gameplay. The developers released a demo in May 2018 to show how the gun crafting would work in the game.

MotoGP 14	The game was released in 2014 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita and Xbox 360. On 10 June 2014, Milestone announced that the game would be released in North America on 4 November and that Bandai Namco Entertainment would be the distributor for this region. MotoGP 14 was also released on PlayStation 4, and was the first next-generation title developed by Milestone.

MotoGP 15	MotoGP 15 is a video game developed by Milestone srl. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 24 June 2015. It is the first to be released on Xbox One and final installment for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360.

MotoGP 17	MotoGP 17 is a motorcycle racing video game developed by Milestone srl.

MotoGP 18	After announcing MotoGP18 is to be released on June 7, Milestone are proud to reveal some brand-new features included in this years game. Set to be a reboot of Milestones flagship title, MotoGP18 has been developed starting from scratch: a new engine, enhanced graphics, reworked physics, faithful reproduction of all elements in game and a new compelling career mode are just some of the elements that will make this years MotoGP videogame the most immersive and realistic MotoGP experience ever.

MotoGP 19	After fifteen rounds of the championship, Marc Mrquez successfully defended his Rider's Championship in Thailand taking his sixth premier class title and fourth in a row, having already won nine races. He ultimately won 12 races, breaking the single-season points and podium records with 420 points and 18 podium finishes from 19 races. Andrea Dovizioso once again finished second for Ducati for the third consecutive season with two wins, and Maverick Viales with Yamaha sealed third with two wins. lex Rins and Danilo Petrucci were the other race winners, both riders achieving their first-ever race wins during the season. In spite of Mrquez's sizeable championship margin, seven races, namely Qatar, Italy, Austria, Britain, San Marino, Thailand and Australia were decided with last-lap passes, the season having seen plenty of close racing.

MotoGP 20	MotoGP 20 has these game modes: Historical, Multiplayer, Career, Fast Modes, Personalization and historical Content.

Moto Racer 4	Moto Racer 4 received "generally unfavorable" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic.

Mount & Blade: Warband	Mount & Blade: Warband is the standalone expansion pack to the strategy action role-playing video game Mount & Blade. Announced in January 2009, the game was developed by the Turkish company TaleWorlds Entertainment and was published by Paradox Interactive on March 30, 2010. The game is available as a direct download from the TaleWorlds website, through the Steam digital distribution software, as a DRM-free version from GOG.com, or as a DVD with required online activation. The macOS and Linux versions were released on July 10, 2014, through Steam.

Mount & Blade II: Bannerlord	Mount & Blade II: Bannerlord is a strategy/action role-playing game. The fundamental gameplay premise is the same as previous entries in the series: the player builds up a party of soldiers and performs quests on an overhead campaign map, with battles being played out on battlefields that allow the player to personally engage in combat alongside their troops. Bannerlord, however, includes significant improvements to numerous elements of gameplay.

MouseCraft	MouseCraft is a 3D indie adventure video game developed and published by Poland-based game studio Crunching Koalas. The game was released on 8 July 2014 for Ouya, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Microsoft Windows. A port for Nintendo Switch was released on 27 February 2020 and Xbox One on 20 January 2022.

Move or Die	Move or Die is a multiplayer action-puzzle game developed by Romanian indie studio Those Awesome Guys. Move or Die was released on Microsoft Windows on 21 January 2016 and was released on PlayStation 4 on 5 March 2019.

Moving Out	Moving Out is a 2020 cooperative moving simulation game developed by Swedish studio DevM Games and Australian developer SMG Studio. In a local cooperative experience, players move objects from houses into a moving van while coping with exaggerated physics. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4,  and Xbox One on April 28, 2020, and for Amazon Luna on January 28, 2021.

Mr. Driller Drill Land	Mr. Driller Drill Land is a 2002 puzzle video game developed and published in Japan by Namco for the GameCube. It is the fifth entry in the Mr. Driller video game series, and the second developed for a Nintendo platform following Mr. Driller A. Controlling one of seven characters, the player must make it to the bottom of each stage by destroying colored blocks, which can connect to each other and form chain reactions. The game is divided into five different modes themed as amusement park attractions, which feature new mechanics such as enemies, items and different block types.

Mugsters	Team17 Group plc is a British video game developer and publisher based in Wakefield, England. The venture was created in December 1990 through the merger of British publisher 17-Bit Software and Swedish developer Team 7. At the time, the two companies consisted of and were led by Michael Robinson, Martyn Brown and Debbie Bestwick, and Andreas Tadic, Rico Holmes and Peter Tuleby, respectively. Bestwick later became Team17's chief executive officer until 1 January 2024. After their first game, Full Contact (1991) for the Amiga, the studio followed up with multiple number-one releases on that platform and saw major success with Andy Davidson's Worms in 1995, the resulting franchise of which still remains as the company's primary development output, having developed over 20 entries in it.

The Mummy Demastered	The Mummy Demastered is a Metroidvania video game released in October 2017 by WayForward Technologies based on the 2017 film The Mummy. It takes place concurrently with the events of the film, with players playing as an unnamed Prodigium soldier under the command of Dr. Henry Jekyll (with the likeness of Russell Crowe from the film) who must fight the evil forces of Princess Ahmanet (with the likeness of Sofia Boutella). The game released for Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in October 2017. The Nintendo Switch version was released in Japan on July 30, 2020. A version for Amazon Luna was released on October 20, 2020.

Murdered: Soul Suspect	The game is played in a third-person view as the player navigates the protagonist, detective Ronan O'Connor, around a fictionalized version of the American town, Salem. The story centers on Ronan as he hunts down an infamous serial murderer stylized 'The Bell Killer'. After being killed by the Bell Killer at the beginning of the game, Ronan returns as a ghost. He is then informed by his long-dead wife, Julia, that he must solve the Bell Killer mystery so he can rejoin her.

Mushroom Wars 2	The game is set in a fictional woodland world, where armies of mushrooms face off in dynamic real-time strategy battles. The player picks one of the heroes, characters with unique abilities, to lead the mushroom armies and commands them to take control of the battlefield in a variety of multiplayer modes with leagues, ranked matches and award system or single-player campaigns with customizable difficulty settings.

Mutant Football League	The game was developed by American studio Digital Dreams Entertainment, led by Michael Mendheim, designer of the original Mutant League Football game. In 2013, Mendheim ran a Kickstarter campaign to fund the game's development, asking for $750,000. The project failed to reach its goal, but Mendheim persisted with the project. In 2017, a second Kickstarter campaign raised a more modest goal of $60,000. Mendheim stated that due to the original funding failure the game will not have as much content as originally planned, and that the main purpose of the second Kickstarter was to fund development of online multiplayer.

Mutant Mudds Deluxe	Mutant Mudds is a platform video game developed by Renegade Kid. Players control Max and Granny as they combat the titular invaders following a meteorite crash. The game was first released as a Nintendo 3DS eShop exclusive in 2012, and arrived on Microsoft Windows and iOS in 2012. An enhanced version of the game, titled Mutant Mudds Deluxe, was released in 2013 for Wii U and Microsoft Windows, and in 2016 for PlayStation Vita and PlayStation 4. The Nintendo 3DS version was updated as the enhanced version in 2014. 

Mutant Mudds Super Challenge	Mutant Mudds is a platform video game developed by Renegade Kid. Players control Max and Granny as they combat the titular invaders following a meteorite crash. The game was first released as a Nintendo 3DS eShop exclusive in 2012, and arrived on Microsoft Windows and iOS in 2012. An enhanced version of the game, titled Mutant Mudds Deluxe, was released in 2013 for Wii U and Microsoft Windows, and in 2016 for PlayStation Vita and PlayStation 4. The Nintendo 3DS version was updated as the enhanced version in 2014. 

Mutant Year Zero: Road to Eden	The game was described by publisher Funcom as a "tactical adventure" game, played from an isometric perspective. There are three difficulty levels for players to choose from. Players control a party of three characters as they navigate the game's world. Different characters have different abilities and skills. Selma, a mutated human character, is an expert in explosives; Dux, a duck hybrid, is equipped with a long-range crossbow; Bormin uses shotguns as one of its weapons. Each character also has their own passive, minor and major mutation attacks that can be activated and customized. The team as a whole levels up as the game progresses, and new weapons and gears could be unlocked. The game also features a skill tree, and a branching story. There are five characters for players to choose from, including three default characters and two recruitable ones.

Mutazione	Mutazione is an adventure game, where the player walks around the different areas and interacts with the environment. The player plays as Kai, who goes to the island one summer in order to see her dying grandfather who lives there. The game takes place over different days, each with unique events. While in conversation, the player can choose different responses that will affect the discussion.

MXGP The Official Motocross Videogame	MXGP The Official Motocross Videogame was the first in a series of racing video games developed and published by Milestone. The game was released worldwide on 18 November 2014 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita and Xbox 360.

MXGP 2	MXGP The Official Motocross Videogame was the first in a series of racing video games developed and published by Milestone. The game was released worldwide on 18 November 2014 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita and Xbox 360.

MXGP 3	MXGP The Official Motocross Videogame was the first in a series of racing video games developed and published by Milestone. The game was released worldwide on 18 November 2014 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita and Xbox 360.

MXGP 2019	MXGP The Official Motocross Videogame was the first in a series of racing video games developed and published by Milestone. The game was released worldwide on 18 November 2014 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita and Xbox 360.

MXGP 2020	MXGP The Official Motocross Videogame was the first in a series of racing video games developed and published by Milestone. The game was released worldwide on 18 November 2014 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita and Xbox 360.

MX Nitro: Unleashed	Saber Interactive Inc. is an American video game developer and publisher founded in 2001 with headquarters in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Saber was acquired by Embracer Group in February 2020, making the studio a direct subsidiary. The company employs over 1,350 people.

MX vs. ATV Supercross Encore	MX vs. ATV Supercross is a racing video game developed by Rainbow Studios and published by Nordic Games for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. This is the fifth game in the MX vs. ATV franchise and is the first game developed after the original creator of the franchise, Rainbow Studios, separated from their most recent publisher THQ due to bankruptcy. An updated version, known as MX vs. ATV Supercross Encore, was released in 2015 for Microsoft Windows and PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in July 2016.

My Friend Pedro	My Friend Pedro is a shoot 'em up video game developed by Swedish developer DeadToast Entertainment and published by Devolver Digital. The game was released for Nintendo Switch and Windows on 20 June 2019 and for Xbox One on 5 December 2019. A PlayStation 4 port of the game was released on 2 April 2020. My Friend Pedro is based on an Adobe Flash game named MFP: My Friend Pedro that was released by Adult Swim Games in 2014.

My Hero: One's Justice	My Hero One's Justice,  known in Japan as My Hero Academia: One's Justice, is a 2018 fighting game developed by Byking and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. The game is based on the manga series My Hero Academia by Khei Horikoshi.

My Hero: One's Justice 2	My Hero One's Justice 2, known in Japan as My Hero Academia: One's Justice 2, is a 2020 fighting game developed and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One, and Google Stadia. The game is a sequel to My Hero One's Justice and based on the manga series My Hero Academia by Khei Horikoshi.

My Time at Portia	My Time at Portia is a 2019 farm sim game developed by Chinese studio Pathea Games and published by Team17. It has some similarities to other farm sims like Stardew Valley.

My Time at Sandrock	Players control a new resident in a desert town.  The setting, like My Time at Portia, is after an event that has destroyed previous civilizations and people have rebuilt society.  My Time at Sandrock combines elements of farm life sims and role-playing games.  Players build up the town, farm, gather resources, craft items, perform side quests, and explore both dungeons and the ruins of the old world cities.  Combat is like My Time at Portia and uses hack and slash mechanics.  Players can also make aimed shots with gun sights.  Twenty-one characters are romanceable.  The Windows version has cooperative multiplayer.

Mystery Chronicle: One Way Heroics	Like previous Mystery Dungeon titles, Fushigi no Chronicle is a turn-based role-playing game in which players explore randomly-generated dungeons. However, with every turn that passes, the screen will scroll as the game world slowly gets swallowed up by a light.

N++	N++ is a platform video game developed and published by Metanet Software. It is the third and final installment of the N franchise, which started with the Adobe Flash game N. It is the sequel to N+. The game was initially released for the PlayStation 4 on July 28, 2015, in North America, and July 29, 2015, in Europe, and was later released for the Microsoft Windows and macOS operating systems on August 25, 2016, and December 26, 2016, respectively. The Xbox One version was released on October 4, 2017. The Linux version of the game was released on May 31, 2018. An expansion to the game, entitled N++ Ultimate Edition, was released for the Windows version of the game on April 21, 2017, as a free update to the game. N++ Ultimate Edition was released for the Nintendo Switch on May 24, 2018.

Namco Museum Archives Vol. 1	Namcot Collection, also known as Namco Museum Archives, is a 2020 video game compilation published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. Originally released in Japan for the Nintendo Switch, it was localized for international territories as two separate collections, Namco Museum Archives Vol. 1 and Vol. 2, for the Switch, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, and Windows. Namcot Collection includes a wide array of video games published by Namco for the Family Computer and Nintendo Entertainment System, with save states, achievements, and homebrew ports of Pac-Man Championship Edition and Gaplus.

Namco Museum Archives Vol. 2	Namcot Collection, also known as Namco Museum Archives, is a 2020 video game compilation published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. Originally released in Japan for the Nintendo Switch, it was localized for international territories as two separate collections, Namco Museum Archives Vol. 1 and Vol. 2, for the Switch, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, and Windows. Namcot Collection includes a wide array of video games published by Namco for the Family Computer and Nintendo Entertainment System, with save states, achievements, and homebrew ports of Pac-Man Championship Edition and Gaplus.

Nano Assault Neo X	Nano Assault Neo is a twin-stick multidirectional shooter developed and published by Shin'en Multimedia and released on the Nintendo eShop for the Wii U. It was a launch title for the system on 18 November 2012 in North America, and in PAL regions on 30 November 2012. It was released in Japan on 27 February 2013 by Arc System Works. It is the sequel to the 2011 Nintendo 3DS game Nano Assault.

Narita Boy	Narita Boy is a 2021 action-adventure video game developed by Spanish  team Studio Koba and published by Team17. The game is an action platformer that follows the titular Narita Boy as he tries to save the Digital Kingdom from the Stallions. The game was released on March 30, 2021 for Windows, macOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and for Amazon Luna on April 29, 2021.

Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm	A sequel titled Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 2 was released in Japan, North America and Europe in October 2010 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. Two more sequels, Ultimate Ninja Storm 3 and Ultimate Ninja Storm 4 were released in 2013 and 2016 respectively.

Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 2	Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 2, known in Japan as Naruto Shippuden: Narutimate Storm 2 (.mw-parser-output .templateruby>rt{font-variant-east-asian:ruby;font-size:85%}.mw-parser-output .templateruby.large{font-size:250%}.mw-parser-output .templateruby.large>rt{font-size:50%}NARUTO()  2) is a fighting game developed by CyberConnect2. It is the second installment in the Ultimate Ninja Storm series, and the sequel to Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm published by Namco Bandai Games. It is based on the anime and manga series Naruto by Masashi Kishimoto, and was released in late-2010 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. As a sequel to Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm, the story and cast are based on their Part II manga appearances, known in the anime as Naruto Shippuden. The game mainly stars title character Naruto Uzumaki, a teenage ninja, and his fights against the Akatsuki terrorist organization.

Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3	The story focuses on the conflict between ninjas from all the villages and the terrorist organization known as Akatsuki as a world war starts between the groups. Its gameplay retains elements of Ultimate Ninja Storm 2 (such as quick time events), adding hack and slash scenarios and options to increase battle difficulty.

Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4	The narrative follows the young ninjas Naruto Uzumaki and Sasuke Uchiha as they participate in a world war between shinobi the Fourth Shinobi World War against the terrorist organization Akatsuki and unite to defeat it. Similar to Storm 3, the game uses regular fighting systems; however, players can switch among a team of three fighters who can assist each other. Other returning elements involve boss fights, where quick time events are required to reach hidden scenes and hack and slash areas. The expansion version is entitled Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4 - Road to Boruto; this version, under development, was compiled with three other series titles as Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Legacy and released on in August 2017. It adds new characters from the 2015 film, Boruto: Naruto the Movie, and adult versions of the younger fighters.

Naruto to Boruto: Shinobi Striker	This is a list of games developed and/or published by Bandai Namco Entertainment and generally covers titles released after 31 March 2006. Games published by Bandai or Namco prior to the merger are not listed here.

NASCAR Heat Evolution	The game features all 23 tracks from the 2016 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series schedule, as well as drivers from several teams like Childress, Ganassi, Gibbs, Hendrick, Petty, Penske, Roush and Stewart-Haas. A November update added the drivers of the 2016 NASCAR Next class, such as Todd Gilliland, Ty Majeski, Harrison Burton and others, though those drivers are only available in quick race mode. NASCAR Heat Evolution also includes a dynamic AI and Speed Rating system that matches the players skill level. Several different modes are built in the game, including a quick race mode, career mode, and a challenge mode. In the challenge mode, players attempt to match or exceed current NASCAR records.

NASCAR Heat 2	NASCAR Heat 2 was also the working title of NASCAR: Dirt to Daytona, as logos for it appear in some menus of the 2002 game.

NASCAR Heat 3	Like NASCAR Heat 2, the career mode option for the game includes the option to play in the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series, NASCAR Xfinity Series and NASCAR Camping World Truck Series. Additions for the third installment include a new fictional Dirt late model series and the option to manage your own team in NASCAR national series competition. The Xtreme Dirt Tour emulates the feel of local dirt track racing, with a variety of new tracks. Notable new tracks include a dirt version of Bristol Motor Speedway (which before it was run in both the Cup and Truck series in 2021 and is only playable for the Xtreme Dirt Tour) and tracks that originally featured in NASCAR: Dirt to Daytona that have received graphical updates. The Charlotte Motor Speedway road course is also available to play at in the Bank of America Roval 400 event.

NASCAR Heat 4	The Xtreme Dirt Tour returned to the game, and Tony Stewart is a driver and team owner in the series. Players in career mode for the first time can start in any of the four series (NASCAR Cup, Xfinity, Trucks, and Xtreme Dirt). Additional updates to the game included different tire compounds for different track types and a track map. Also, custom cars now have an open number choice from 0-99 (including 00-09) for both quick race and career mode.

NASCAR Heat 5	Other than a new single-player track testing mode, gameplay remained largely the same as its predecessor, NASCAR Heat 4. Minor tweaks to pit stops, the paint booth and in-race retirements (DNF) were also introduced.

NASCAR 21: Ignition	The cover athletes are Cup drivers for each manufacturer: Chase Elliott for Chevrolet, Bubba Wallace for Toyota, and Ryan Blaney for Ford. Bill Elliott is on the cover of the Champions Edition version of the game, which released two days prior, and allows players to race as Bill himself (using a 2019-2021 Gen 6 NASCAR Cup Series Ford Mustang with his 1983 Melling paint scheme).

Natsuiro High School: Seishun Hakusho	The player assumes the role of a high school boy on the fictional island of Yumegashima (), Japan. The player is able to explore the island. On many occasions, the player will find people that will give them quests, mostly to take pictures of schoolgirls' panties for a journalism club. If the player is seen doing so, they will be reported to the police, initiating a pursuit phase, where the player has to evade the police. If caught, the player will be taken into custody in a police station or the school counsellor's office, depending on where the player was caught.

Natural Doctrine	The game is a tactical role-playing game  based along the concept of natural selection. The game features single and multiplayer modes with versus and co-operative play, and is cross-play and cross-save compatible.

NBA 2K14	On July 2, 2013, 2K Sports and EuroLeague signed an exclusive multi-year deal to include teams in the game. This marks the first time EuroLeague teams have appeared in the NBA 2K series, similar to EA's NBA Live series,  which included FIBA teams and also the U.S. national basketball team found in 2K13, beginning with Live 08 and ending with Live 10.

NBA 2K15	NBA 2K15 allows players to scan their faces into the game for created players, using the PlayStation Camera on PlayStation 4 or the Kinect on the Xbox One. The 3D mapping process creates a realistic rendition of the gamer's face to make their gaming experience as real as possible. The process of scanning the face will take about 30 seconds. Players need to get very close (6-12 inches) to the camera and slowly turn their heads 30 degrees to the left and right during the scanning process.

NBA 2K16	NBA 2K16 is a 2015 basketball simulation video game developed by Visual Concepts and published by 2K. It is the 17th installment in the NBA 2K franchise and the successor to NBA 2K15, while also being the predecessor of NBA 2K17. It was released on September 29, 2015, for Microsoft Windows, Xbox One, Xbox 360, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation 3. A mobile version for Android and iOS was released on October 14, 2015. There are three different covers for the main game, one featuring Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans, another featuring Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors, and the last featuring James Harden of the Houston Rockets. A special edition version of the game was also released; it features Michael Jordan on the cover.

NBA 2K17	NBA 2K17 is a 2016 basketball simulation video game developed by Visual Concepts and published by 2K. It is the 18th installment in the NBA 2K franchise and the successor to NBA 2K16. It was released worldwide on September 20, 2016, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, and Xbox One. Players who pre-ordered the game received it on September 16, 2016. Paul George of the Indiana Pacers is the cover athlete for the regular edition of the game, while Kobe Bryant is the cover athlete for the 'Legend Edition'. In Italy, the cover athlete is Danilo Gallinari, and in Spain, the cover athlete is Pau Gasol. A version of the game for iOS and Android was released on September 23, 2016. NBA 2K17 was succeeded by NBA 2K18.

NBA 2K18	NBA 2K18 is a 2017 basketball simulation video game developed by Visual Concepts and published by 2K. It is the 19th installment in the NBA 2K franchise, the successor to NBA 2K17, and the predecessor to NBA 2K19. It was released on September 19, 2017 for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, iOS and Android. Kyrie Irving of the Boston Celtics serves as cover athlete for the regular edition of the game, Shaquille O'Neal is the cover athlete for the special editions, and DeMar DeRozan of the Toronto Raptors is the cover athlete for the Canadian version. While a member of the Cleveland Cavaliers when selected for the cover, Irving was traded to the Boston Celtics prior to the game's release. As a result, a new cover depicting Irving in a Celtics uniform was revealed alongside the original cover. This was the last installment in the series to be released for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.

NBA 2K19	NBA 2K19 is a 2018 basketball simulation video game developed by Visual Concepts and published by 2K, based on the National Basketball Association (NBA). It is the 20th installment in the NBA 2K franchise, the successor to NBA 2K18, and the predecessor to NBA 2K20. Giannis Antetokounmpo of the Milwaukee Bucks is the cover athlete for the standard edition, while LeBron James (who was also the cover athlete of NBA 2K14) of the Los Angeles Lakers is the cover athlete for the 20th Anniversary Edition. Antetokounmpo and James grace the cover in North America, while Australia native Ben Simmons of the Philadelphia 76ers is featured on the cover in Australia and New Zealand.

NBA 2K20	NBA 2K20 is a 2019 basketball simulation video game developed by Visual Concepts and published by 2K, based on the National Basketball Association (NBA). It is the 21st installment in the NBA 2K franchise, the successor to NBA 2K19, and the predecessor to NBA 2K21. Anthony Davis of the Los Angeles Lakers is the cover athlete for the regular edition of the game, while Dwyane Wade is the cover athlete for the 'Legend Edition'. The game is NBA 2K's last 2010s entry.

NBA 2K21	Is there any basketball game?<mct>NBA 2K21 is a 2020 basketball simulation video game developed by Visual Concepts and published by 2K. The game is based on the National Basketball Association (NBA) and is the 22nd installment in the NBA 2K franchise, the successor to NBA 2K20, and the predecessor to NBA 2K22. The game was released on September 4, 2020, for  Microsoft Windows, macOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Google Stadia, and the PlayStation 5 and the Xbox Series X/S versions were released on the consoles' respective launch dates. Most versions were released to heavy criticism, citing the lack of originality in the gameplay and many microtransactions and bugs.

NBA 2K22	NBA 2K22 is a 2021 basketball video game developed by Visual Concepts and published by 2K, based on the National Basketball Association (NBA). It is the 23rd installment in the NBA 2K franchise, the successor to NBA 2K21 and the predecessor to NBA 2K23. The game was released on September 10, 2021 for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S. The NBA 2K22 Arcade Edition was released for Apple Arcade and Android on October 19, 2021. As of May 2022, the game has sold over 10 million copies.

NBA 2K23	Phoenix Suns shooting guard Devin Booker is on the cover of the standard and digital deluxe versions, while NBA Hall Of Famer Michael Jordan is on the cover of the Michael Jordan and Championship Editions. WNBA stars Sue Bird and Diana Taurasi are featured on the WNBA cover edition. The 'Dreamer Edition' has American rapper J. Cole on the cover.

NBA 2K24	NBA 2K24 is a 2023 basketball video game developed by Visual Concepts Austin and published by 2K, based on the National Basketball Association (NBA). It is the 25th installment in the NBA 2K franchise and is the successor to NBA 2K23. The game was released on September 8, 2023, for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S. The NBA 2K24 Arcade Edition was released on Apple Arcade on October 24, 2023.

NBA 2K Playgrounds 2	NBA 2K Playgrounds 2 received several content updates after its release, which added new courts, cosmetics, and players. The game received mixed reviews from critics.

NBA Live 14	The first gameplay for the game was shown at the Xbox One reveal event in a trailer by EA Sports, showing off the new IGNITE game engine. The game was released in November 2013.

NBA Live 15	NBA Live 15 was followed by NBA Live 16.

NBA Live 16	Improved defense play, offense play, passing play, shooting play, dribbling play, and more animations are included in NBA Live 16 as well as Freestyle Control and Movement with improved visuals. This game mode allows players to play basketball life on and off the court with more clothes and a new Game Face app for iOS and Android devices.

NBA Live 18	NBA Live 18 features Houston Rockets guard James Harden as the cover athlete. Harden previously shared the cover of NBA 2K16 with Steph Curry and Anthony Davis. The game's "UltimateTeam" mode allows players to draft different players to create a custom roster, similar to EA's Madden NFL franchise. It is the first basketball video game to feature a full WNBA roster. A single-player career mode, called "The One", is similar to 2K Sports' "MyCareer" mode. In this mode, the created player can use their skills across leagues and even join the NBA Draft and Combine, which features over-the-top analysis from segments of ESPN First Take, hosted by Max Kellerman and Stephen A. Smith. Hosts give their open-minded opinions in the direction the player is going to progress through the mode. The game mode allows players to experience basketball life both on- and off-court with more clothes and a Game Face app for iOS and Android devices, allowing players to scan their face for upload to the game.

NBA Live 19	NBA Live 19 features Joel Embiid of the Philadelphia 76ers on the cover. Much like EA's Madden NFL 19, gameplay improvements include the introduction of real-player motion and the expansion of one-on-one features. It is also the first basketball game to include the option to create a female player. In addition, NBA Live 19 received a new commentary team of New York Knicks radio play-by-play announcer Ed Cohen and ESPN basketball analyst Jay Williams, replacing Mike Breen and Jeff Van Gundy, who voiced the NBA Live series since NBA Live 14 and the canceled NBA Elite 11. New presentation elements debuted for this season, and career mode is enhanced with streetballer Grayson "The Professor" Boucher and ESPN's First Take as co-hosts Stephen A. Smith and Max Kellerman, among others, reacting to player performances.

NBA Playgrounds	NBA Playgrounds includes a roster of both active and former NBA stars. Both local and online multiplayer modes are included in the game, although local mode requires an internet connection to function on PS4.

Necrobarista	The game was released on July 17, 2020 for macOS and iOS via Apple Arcade, July 22, 2020 for Windows, and August 11, 2021 for Nintendo Switch. The original game was divided into ten chapters, with two stand-alone chapters focusing on minor or new characters being released as free DLCs; the game's name was changed to Necrobarista - Final Pour after both DLCs were added to the base game on all platforms. The game is also scheduled to release at a later date for PlayStation 4.

Necromunda: Hired Gun	Necromunda: Hired Gun is a 2021 first-person shooter video game developed by Streum On Studio and published by Focus Home Interactive. The game is based on Games Workshop's 1995 tabletop game Necromunda. The game is set in the Warhammer 40,000 universe, and takes place on the mechanized planet of Necromunda, where the player works for various factions in the planet's criminal underworld. Necromunda was released on 1 June 2021 for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X and Series S and Microsoft Windows.

Necromunda: Underhive Wars	Necromunda: Underhive Wars is a 2020 tactical role-playing game video game developed by Rogue Factor and published by Focus Home Interactive. The game is based on Games Workshop's 1995 tabletop game Necromunda. The game is set in the Warhammer 40,000 universe, and takes place on the mechanized planet of Necromunda, with the player controlling a gang of up to 5 who fight with other gangs for resources. Necromunda: Underhive Wars was released on 7 September 2020 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Microsoft Windows.

Necropolis	Necropolis is an action role-playing game developed by Harebrained Schemes and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. The game was released for Microsoft Windows and OS X in July 2016, and for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in October 2016.

Need for Speed	Need for Speed received mixed reviews from critics, who praised the game's visuals and customization but criticized it for being always-online with the inability to pause, which would also lead to performance issues on all platforms. The game was succeeded by Need for Speed Payback in 2017.

Need for Speed: Heat	Give me name of a recent racing game?<mct>Racing game<mct>Need for Speed Heat (stylised as NFS Heat) is a 2019 racing video game developed by Ghost Games and published by Electronic Arts for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. It is the twenty-fourth installment in the Need for Speed series and commemorates the series' 25th anniversary. The game received mixed reviews from critics, who mostly found the game to be an improvement over the 2015 Need for Speed reboot and Payback but not enough to be a full return to form for the franchise.

Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit Remastered	Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit is a 2010 racing video game developed by Criterion Games and published by Electronic Arts for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii, Microsoft Windows, iOS, Android, webOS, and Windows Phone. The Wii version was developed by Exient Entertainment. Hot Pursuit is the sixteenth Need for Speed title and was released in November 2010, with digital distribution versions released within December 2010. This version is a reboot of Need for Speed III: Hot Pursuit (1998). A remastered version, titled Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit Remastered, was released on November 6, 2020, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and on November 13, 2020, for Nintendo Switch.

Need for Speed: Payback	Need for Speed Payback is a racing game set in an open world environment of Fortune Valley; a fictional version of Las Vegas, Nevada. It is focused on "action driving" and has three playable characters (each with different sets of skills) working together to pull off action movie-like sequences. In contrast with the previous game, it also features a 24-hour day-night cycle. Unlike the 2015 Need for Speed reboot, Payback includes an offline single-player mode.

Need for Speed: Rivals	Need for Speed Rivals is a 2013 racing video game developed in a collaboration between Ghost Games and Criterion Games, and published by Electronic Arts.  It is the twentieth installment in the Need for Speed series and the debut title for Ghost Games, who would be established as the primary developer of the series for all subsequent non-mobile installments up until 2020. Rivals was well received by critics at E3 2013 and was awarded with "Best Racing Game" from Game Critics Awards. It also received mostly positive reviews upon release. It was followed in 2015 by the mobile game Need for Speed: No Limits and the unsubtitled reboot of this franchise.

Nefarious	Nefarious is an action platform game developed by StarBlade. The game was funded through a Kickstarter campaign, raising over $50,000, and was released on Steam for Linux, Microsoft Windows and OS X on January 23, 2017. Ports for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One were released in 2018. The game subverts typical video game boss fights by allowing the player to take the role of the boss against archetypical hero characters. The game received mixed reviews from critics and has spawned a sequel webcomic series.

Neighbours back From Hell	On October 8, 2020, a remastered compilation of the first two games titled Neighbours Back from Hell was released on Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It features increased frame rate and HD visuals.

Nekopara Vol. 1	Nekopara (Japanese: ), taglined Cats Paradise, is a series of adult visual novels developed by NEKO WORKs and published by Sekai Project. The first game in the series, Nekopara Vol. 1, was released in December 2014. Taking place in a world where humans live alongside catgirls. The series follows Kashou Minaduki and Shigure Minaduki, siblings who have a family of catgirls named Chocola, Vanilla, Coconut, Azuki, Maple, Cinnamon and Cacao. It is centered around work life at Kashou's ptisserie and home life at Shigure's family house.

Nekopara Vol. 2	Nekopara (Japanese: ), taglined Cats Paradise, is a series of adult visual novels developed by NEKO WORKs and published by Sekai Project. The first game in the series, Nekopara Vol. 1, was released in December 2014. Taking place in a world where humans live alongside catgirls. The series follows Kashou Minaduki and Shigure Minaduki, siblings who have a family of catgirls named Chocola, Vanilla, Coconut, Azuki, Maple, Cinnamon and Cacao. It is centered around work life at Kashou's ptisserie and home life at Shigure's family house.

Nekopara Vol. 3	Nekopara (Japanese: ), taglined Cats Paradise, is a series of adult visual novels developed by NEKO WORKs and published by Sekai Project. The first game in the series, Nekopara Vol. 1, was released in December 2014. Taking place in a world where humans live alongside catgirls. The series follows Kashou Minaduki and Shigure Minaduki, siblings who have a family of catgirls named Chocola, Vanilla, Coconut, Azuki, Maple, Cinnamon and Cacao. It is centered around work life at Kashou's ptisserie and home life at Shigure's family house.

Nekopara Vol. 4	Nekopara (Japanese: ), taglined Cats Paradise, is a series of adult visual novels developed by NEKO WORKs and published by Sekai Project. The first game in the series, Nekopara Vol. 1, was released in December 2014. Taking place in a world where humans live alongside catgirls. The series follows Kashou Minaduki and Shigure Minaduki, siblings who have a family of catgirls named Chocola, Vanilla, Coconut, Azuki, Maple, Cinnamon and Cacao. It is centered around work life at Kashou's ptisserie and home life at Shigure's family house.

Neon Chrome	Neon Chrome is a twin-stick shooter video game developed by 10tons.

Neon White	Designed around speedrunning, Neon White puts the player in the role of a Neon, tasked with clearing all the demons within a level in the fastest time possible. The game uses playing cards to represent weapons, which can be discarded to perform special moves like double-jumping and dashing. The game was written by Ryann Shannon, writer for OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes; and Aevee Bee, writer for We Know the Devil.

Neo: The World Ends with You	Neo: The World Ends with You is an action role-playing game co-developed by Square Enix and h.a.n.d. and published by Square Enix. It is a sequel to the 2007 video game The World Ends with You. It was released for the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 in July 2021 and for Windows in September. The story features a new cast of characters playing the Reapers' Game in Shibuya and, unlike the original game, features three-dimensional graphics.

Nerf Legends	Nerf Legends is a first-person shooter video game developed by Fun Labs and published by GameMill Entertainment. It was released on 19 November 2021 for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

Never Alone	Never Alone is a puzzle-platform adventure video game developed by Upper One Games and published by E-Line Media. It is based on the traditional Iupiaq tale, "Kunuuksaayuka", which was first recorded by master storyteller Robert Nasruk Cleveland in his collection Stories of the Black River People. Swapping between an Iupiaq girl named Nuna and her Arctic fox companion, the player completes puzzles in a story that spans eight chapters. The game was made in partnership between the Cook Inlet Tribal Council and E-Line Media and is a video game produced by Indigenous people. A sequel was announced in February 2022.

Neverending Nightmares	The player takes the role of Thomas, a man who "wakes up" from one nightmare and into another. As the player navigates Thomas throughout the game, the nightmares become progressively worse, including the horrifying monsters that lurk within them. Each time Thomas dies in a nightmare, comes across some serious cause of depression, or commits self-harm, he will "wake up" again in either the same nightmare as before, or into a different one. This acts as the game's checkpoint and save system. The game contains a total of three different endings, all influenced by the player's choices or paths that they take.

Neversong	The game will follow Peet who wakes from a strange coma and discovers things aren't exactly as they were. Children have overrun his hometown and all adults have vanished.

Neverwinter Nights: Enhanced Edition	Neverwinter Nights is set in the fantasy world of the Forgotten Realms campaign setting, with the game mechanics based on the Dungeons & Dragons 3rd edition rules. The game engine was designed around an Internet-based model for running a massively multiplayer online game (MMOG), which would allow end users to host game servers. Up to 64 players could connect to a single server. The intent was to create a potentially infinite massively multiplayer game framework. This game was named after the original Neverwinter Nights online game, the first graphical massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG), which operated from 1991 to 1997 on AOL.

New Gundam Breaker	The popularity of the Japanese anime metaseries Gundam since its release in 1979 has resulted in a spread of merchandise across various forms, with video games among them. 

New Super Lucky's Tale	New Super Lucky's Tale is a platform game in which players control Lucky as he travels across many different worlds contained within an artifact known as the Book of Ages. Each world is presented with its own hub which could be explored and traversed within a 3D space in a non-linear manner. Each world feature levels where Lucky clears various objectives and searches for secrets in order to collect pages which contain a clover emblem, which grant access to a boss fight involving a member of the game's villainous faction, the Kitty Litter, and allow players to progress to the next world at its conclusion. Certain levels place Lucky in a 2D side-scrolling environment, and occasionally these levels have Lucky moving in one constant direction, with a focus on quick reflexes through dodging obstacles which appear on screen through jumping or burrowing. Other levels feature sliding puzzles, and marble puzzles where Lucky is shrunk down and contained in a marble ball; the player must tilt the stage and successfully navigate Lucky in order to progress. Lucky may dispatch enemies by swiping them with his tail or jump on them. Players may dress Lucky in a variety of outfits purchased using coins collected in each level.

Nex Machina	Nex Machina is a shoot 'em up video game developed and published by Housemarque. The game was released in June 2017 for the PlayStation 4 and Windows-based personal computers. Tentatively known as The Jarvis Project during development, veteran arcade game designer Eugene Jarvis served as a creative consultant on the project.

Next Up Hero	Next Up Hero is an action dungeon crawl video game developed by New York indie studio Digital Continue and published by Aspyr. It was released for Steam Early Access on January 18, 2018, with a full release on June 28, 2018 alongside the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions. It was released for Nintendo Switch on August 16, 2018.

NHL '94 Rewind	The game maintained the series' signature vertical camera angle, which offered the player distinct gameplay and strategic advantages over contemporary side-view hockey games, and kept the 2D sprite character models of NHLPA '93 (albeit with some new animations). The team rosters and player attributes in the game reflect that of the 1992-93 season, and include the league's two new expansion teams for that season, the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim (now the Anaheim Ducks) and Florida Panthers.

NHL 15	NHL 15 is an ice hockey video game developed by EA Canada and published by EA Sports. It is the 24th installment of the NHL series and was released on September 9, 2014 in North America then three days later in Europe, Australia and New Zealand. The game serves as the debut entry in the series for eighth generation consoles, receiving releases on the PlayStation 4 and the Xbox One.

NHL 16	NHL 16 is an ice hockey simulation video game developed by EA Canada and published by EA Sports. It is the 25th installment of the NHL series and was released on September 15, 2015, in North America and September 17 and 18 in Europe, Australia and New Zealand. The game was released on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, with a separate release for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 titled NHL: Legacy Edition. Jonathan Toews of the Chicago Blackhawks is the official cover athlete, marking his second appearance on an NHL cover, following NHL 11.

NHL 17	NHL 17 is an ice hockey simulation video game developed by EA Canada and published by EA Sports. It is the 26th installment in the NHL game series and was released for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles in September 2016.

NHL 18	NHL 18 has several new features, highlighted by the brand new NHL Threes mode, which mimics NHL overtime rules with 3-on-3 hockey. The mode features a smaller rink, bigger hits, and even a different announcer as it offers a more arcade-like look at hockey. Mascots from NHL teams are also playable in this mode.

NHL 19	NHL 19 included new game modes that allowed players to play on outdoor rinks, online. With new gameplay technology, EA Sports also announced that skating had more acceleration, action, speed, and responsiveness than in previous installments. NHL 19s new feature World of Chel allows the player to explore various modes while maintaining the player's character progression. In the mode Ones, players face-off in a 1 v 1 v 1 game setting on a frozen pond.  Capturing the action in a more realistic environment. A leveling system was also introduced in World of Chel which increases the players level while playing and unlocking boxes to gain more loot for their characters, World of Chel also has no microtransactions.

NHL 20	NHL 20 is an ice hockey simulation video game developed by EA Vancouver and published by EA Sports. It was released globally on Xbox One and PlayStation 4 on September 13, 2019. It is the 29th installment in the NHL video game series and features Toronto Maple Leafs center Auston Matthews as the official and North American cover athlete, and would return as the cover athlete in NHL 22. Elias Pettersson of the Vancouver Canucks was named the cover athlete for the Swedish cover, and Patrik Laine of the Winnipeg Jets was named the Finnish cover athlete for the second year in a row.

NHL 21	The career mode for NHL 21, known as "Be a Pro", has been expanded to be more interactive and cinematic, similar to other franchises such as Madden NFL and NBA 2K. Players create their custom hockey player and choose to begin their career as a prospect in either the Canadian Hockey League or the Champions Hockey League, or choose to go undrafted and sign to a team of their choice as a free agent in the National Hockey League. Players are able to select their dialogue when speaking to their coach or the hockey press in media scrums. The dialogue options the player selects affects their likability among teammates, management, and their brand. The Be a Pro central hub has also been updated to match the revamped mode, allowing for the player to access all important aspects of their hockey player in one screen.

NHL 22	New to NHL 22 is a new game engine and a graphical overhaul. The NHL series jumps to the Frostbite engine, after using the Ignite engine for the previous 7 years. Additionally, it moves to the next generation consoles PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S. NHL 22 also introduces Superstar X-Factors, which are abilities that makes superstar players unique, and differentiates them from other players. This also unlocks specific animations affecting their area of expertise.

NHL 23	NHL 23 features "The Zegras", a variant of the lacrosse-style goal, also known as the Michigan goal, performed by Trevor Zegras and Sonny Milano. A player from behind the net hits the puck up above the crossbar and another player in front of the net hits the puck into the goal.

Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl	Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl is a 2021 crossover fighting game developed by Ludosity and Fair Play Labs, and published by GameMill Entertainment. It is part of the Nickelodeon Super Brawl series of browser games and mobile games, serving as its first console game. Featuring characters from various Nickelodeon animated television series, the game was released on October 5, 2021, for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. A sequel, Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2, released in 2023.

Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2	Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 is a 2023 crossover fighting game developed by Fair Play Labs and published by GameMill Entertainment. It is the sequel to Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl (2021) and part of the Nickelodeon Super Brawl series. The game was released on November 7, 2023, for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

Nickelodeon Kart Racers	Nickelodeon Kart Racers features a selection of twelve playable characters from SpongeBob SquarePants, Hey Arnold!, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, and Rugrats. 24 courses and 8 arenas based on different locations from the shows are included in the game.

Nickelodeon Kart Racers 2: Grand Prix	Nickelodeon Kart Racers 2: Grand Prix features a selection of 30 playable racers, consisting of characters from 12 different Nicktoons and real-life actress JoJo Siwa. Each character has different gameplay statistics such as top speed and handling, which can be further altered by customizing their kart with different unlockable vehicle parts. There are also 70 non-playable "pit crew" characters based on these shows, made up of 20 "chiefs" and 50 "crew", with players able to equip one chief and two crew before each race. Chief characters will give the player an additional ability they can activate at any time during the race, such as a sudden speed boost or temporary shield; each use requires players to first fill a slime meter by driving through slime or collecting slime tokens on the track. Crew characters grant abilities that are automatically activated under specific circumstances, such as giving the player a speed boost after they are struck by an item or obstacle, or collecting only a specific item from item containers; once used, these abilities have a cooldown period and cannot be activated again until a certain amount of time has passed. 

Nickelodeon Kart Racers 3: Slime Speedway	Nickelodeon Kart Racers 3: Slime Speedway builds on the gameplay established in previous series entries. Players must race around a track and attempt to come in first place, using items scattered on the track to hinder opponents or techniques such as drifting and midair tricks to gain speed. As in the original Nickelodeon Kart Racers, vehicles will transform into watercraft at predetermined points in the race to continue progressing through the track. The "pit crew" system from  Nickelodeon Kart Racers 2: Grand Prix returns, which allows players to equip special characters before each race that grant them active and passive abilities. These abilities can be activated once the player fills a meter by driving through a sufficient amount of slime on the track. Up to 90 pit crew characters can be unlocked in Slime Speedway. All of the core gameplay modes from the previous game return, including the "Slime Scramble" Grand Prix; Free Race; Time Trial; Challenges; and Arena.

Nidhogg	Nidhogg is a side-scrolling two-player fighting video game developed and published by Messhof. Players duel with swords in a pixelated environment. The game was commissioned for the New York University Game Center's annual multiplayer show, and was revised and demoed at private events over the next four years before its final release. It won Indiecade 2013's Game Design award and the 2011 Independent Games Festival's Nuovo Award. It was released for Microsoft Windows on January 13, 2014, and later ported to OS X, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation Vita. Critics praised the feel of the gameplay and its balance, but considered its single-player mode unsatisfying. Messhof released a sequel in 2017 with a higher resolution art style and additional weapons and arenas.

Nidhogg 2	Nidhogg 2 is a fighting game and sequel to Nidhogg by indie developer Messhof. It was released for Microsoft Windows, macOS and PlayStation 4 in 2017. An Xbox One version was released in July 2018 and the Nintendo Switch version was released in November 2018. The game received generally positive reviews from critics upon release.

Nier: Automata	Nier: Automata is a 2017 action role-playing game developed by PlatinumGames and published by Square Enix. It is a sequel to Nier (2010), itself a spin-off of and sequel to the Drakengard series. Nier: Automata was originally released for the PlayStation 4 and Windows via Steam, and an Xbox One port was published the following year. A Nintendo Switch port was released in 2022.

Nier Replicant ver.1.22474487139...	Nier is an action role-playing video game developed by Cavia and published by Square Enix for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in April 2010. In Japan, the game was released as Nier Replicant for the PlayStation 3 with a younger main character, while an alternative version titled Nier Gestalt with an older main character was released for the Xbox 360; Gestalt was released outside of Japan as Nier for both platforms. A remaster of the PlayStation 3 version of the game, Nier Replicant ver.1.22474487139... was released worldwide for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Windows on April 23, 2021.

Night in the Woods	Prior to the release of Night in the Woods, a companion game titled Longest Night was released in December 2013 by Holowka and Benson, along with co-writer Bethany Hockenberry. In December 2014, a second supplemental game was released, titled Lost Constellation.

Nights of Azure	The game was followed up by a sequel titled Nights of Azure 2: Bride of the New Moon, released August 2017 in Japan, and October 2017 worldwide.

Nights of Azure 2: Bride of the New Moon	The game was followed up by a sequel titled Nights of Azure 2: Bride of the New Moon, released August 2017 in Japan, and October 2017 worldwide.

Night Trap: 25th Anniversary Edition	Night Trap is a 1992 interactive movie developed by Digital Pictures and published by Sega for the Sega CD. Presented primarily through full-motion video (FMV), Night Trap has the player observe teenage girls having a sleepover visiting a house which, unbeknownst to them, is infested with vampires. The player watches live surveillance footage and triggers traps to capture anyone endangering the girls. The player can switch between different cameras to keep watch over the girls and eavesdrop on conversations to follow the story and listen for clues.

Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch	Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch is an action role-playing game, developed by Level-5. The game is a significantly enhanced version of Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn, which originally released for the Nintendo DS in Japan in December 2010. It was released for the PlayStation 3 in Japan in November 2011, and published in Western regions by Namco Bandai Games in January 2013. It was also released for Nintendo Switch in September 2019. A remastered version was released for PlayStation 4 and Windows in September 2019, and for Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S in September 2022.

Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom	Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom is an action role-playing game developed by Level-5 and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. The game is a sequel to Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch, and was released for PlayStation 4 and Windows on March 23, 2018. The game was later released for the Nintendo Switch on September 17, 2021, and for Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S on March 21, 2023.

Ninja Gaiden: Master Collection	The series gained popularity on the NES for its tight action-platform gameplay, catchy music and, according to G4's X-Play, for being the first console game to have the story presented in cinematic cutscenes. The 8-bit trilogy was enhanced for the 16-bit Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995. Sega released two Ninja Gaiden games for the Game Gear and Master System, the latter only for PAL regions. The original series' setting of said universe is a retro-futuristic version of the 1980s. A new game, titled Ninja Gaiden, was released in 2004 as a 3D action game on the Xbox, developed by Team Ninja, the makers of Dead or Alive. The Ninja Gaiden franchise is known for its high degree of difficulty, particularly the original NES version and the Xbox revival.

Nioh	Nioh (Japanese: , Hepburn: Ni, "Two Deva Kings") is an action role-playing soulslike video game developed by Team Ninja. It was released for PlayStation 4 in February 2017, and was published by Sony Interactive Entertainment internationally, and by Koei Tecmo in Japan. An edition for PlayStation 4 and Windows, containing the game's downloadable content, was released on November 7, 2017 by Koei Tecmo. A remastered version was released for PlayStation 5 on February 5, 2021.

Nioh 2	Similar to its predecessor, Nioh 2 is an action role-playing game. Players can create their own playable character, who was a ykai spirit. Players are equipped with a variety of weapons such as odachi and kusarigama, and earn new skills and special abilities as they progress in the game. When players defeat a hostile ykai, some of them may drop a "Soul Core". Soul Cores allow players to use ykai abilities once the cores are purified by visiting a shrine.

The Ninja Saviors: Return of the Warriors	The Ninja Warriors is a beat 'em up video game developed by Natsume for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System and published by Taito in Japan and North America in 1994 and by Titus in Europe in 1995. It is a follow-up to Taito's 1987 arcade game of the same title, and shares similar gameplay. The player can choose between playing as one of three ninja androids, each with different attributes and a unique set of moves including jumps, dashes, throws, and other attacks. The game was developed by the same team at Natsume that later developed Wild Guns (1994).

Nitroplus Blasterz: Heroines Infinite Duel	The game uses five buttons; light attack, medium attack, heavy attack, escape action, and heavy action. The escape action button can be used to perform evasive maneuvers and guards while heavy actions can be used to push an opponent back. Players can perform Infinite Blasts, which can interrupt an opponent's attack, Variable Rushes, which allows for surprise combos, and Lethal Blazes, which serve as the game's super combo attacks. Players can also choose two support characters which they can summon to assist them.

Nobody Saves the World	Nobody Saves the World is an action role-playing game played from a top-down perspective. The game can be played solo, or in a cooperative multiplayer mode. In the game, the player controls a blank-state character named Nobody, who is equipped with a wand. The wand allows them to transform into 18 forms, such as a magician, a robot and a dragon. Each form has two basic skills at the beginning. As players progress, abilities are unlocked. These characters have different stats and attributes. The skills and the abilities of different Forms can be combined to create devastating attacks. Other Forms can share the gameplay benefits of one Form when it was unlocked.

Nobunaga's Ambition: Sphere of Influence	Games in the franchise have been released for the Nintendo Entertainment System, Game Boy, Sega Genesis, 3DO, Super Nintendo, PlayStation, Sega Saturn, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii, PlayStation Portable, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch. The title was also released for Macintosh as well as MSX, Amiga, and MS-DOS. As of March 2018, the series has shipped more than 10 million copies worldwide.

Nobunaga's Ambition: Rebirth	Games in the franchise have been released for the Nintendo Entertainment System, Game Boy, Sega Genesis, 3DO, Super Nintendo, PlayStation, Sega Saturn, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii, PlayStation Portable, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch. The title was also released for Macintosh as well as MSX, Amiga, and MS-DOS. As of March 2018, the series has shipped more than 10 million copies worldwide.

Nobunaga's Ambition: Taishi	Games in the franchise have been released for the Nintendo Entertainment System, Game Boy, Sega Genesis, 3DO, Super Nintendo, PlayStation, Sega Saturn, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii, PlayStation Portable, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch. The title was also released for Macintosh as well as MSX, Amiga, and MS-DOS. As of March 2018, the series has shipped more than 10 million copies worldwide.

No Man's Sky	No Man's Sky is an action-adventure survival game developed and published by Hello Games. It was released worldwide for the PlayStation 4 and Windows in August 2016, for Xbox One in July 2018, for the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X and Series S consoles in November 2020, for Nintendo Switch in October 2022, and for macOS in June 2023. The game is built around five pillars: exploration, survival, combat, trading, and base building. Players can engage with the entirety of a procedurally generated deterministic open world universe, which includes over 18 quintillion planets. Through the game's procedural generation system, planets have their own ecosystems with unique forms of flora and fauna, and various alien species may engage the player in combat or trade within planetary systems. Players advance in the game by mining for resources to power and improve their equipment, buying and selling resources using credits earned by documenting flora and fauna or trading with the aforementioned lifeforms, building planetary bases and expanding space fleets, or otherwise following the game's overarching plot by seeking out the mystery around the entity known as The Atlas.

No More Heroes III	No More Heroes III is a 2021 action-adventure hack and slash video game developed and published by Grasshopper Manufacture for the Nintendo Switch. Marvelous published the game in Japan. It is the fourth installment in the No More Heroes series and is the third mainline entry in the series. Set eleven years after the events of No More Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle (2010), the game stars professional assassin Travis Touchdown and follows his return to the fictional city of Santa Destroy, as he must defend the world from a powerful army of alien invaders led by the galactic overlord prince FU and his nine soldiers who adopt the faade of galactic superheroes.

Northgard	Shiro Games is a video game development company based in Bordeaux, France. The company was founded in 2012 by Sebastien Vidal and Nicolas Cannasse, and developed the Evoland series and Dune: Spice Wars.

No Straight Roads	In No Straight Roads, the player takes control of either Mayday or Zuke and can switch between them anytime in single player. The game is designed around a rhythm-based combat system in which the player can move freely without having to follow the beat, but still has to pay attention to audio cues in order to plan their moves. The music notes they collect can be used as ammunition and projectiles, and some objects can be transformed into weapons and defenses during boss battles.

Not a Hero	Not a Hero is a cover system 2D shooter video game developed by the British indie development studio Roll7 and published by Devolver Digital. The game released on 14 May 2015 for Microsoft Windows. A later update, which was built using the Chowdren runtime for Clickteam Fusion 2.5, introduced builds for OS X and Linux, on 1 October 2015. The PlayStation 4 version of the game released on 2 February 2016, with the PlayStation Vita version being cancelled. A Super Snazzy Edition, including a new extra campaign, was released on Xbox One by Team17 in May 2016, and on Nintendo Switch by Devolver Digital in August 2018.

No Time to Explain	No Time to Explain is a platform game developed and published by tinyBuild. Designed by Tom Brien and Alex Nichiporchik, it is the successor to Brien's browser game, released on January 6, 2011. No Time to Explain has been released on Linux, Microsoft Windows, and OS X. A remastered version of the game, No Time to Explain Remastered, was released for Linux, Microsoft Windows, OS X, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. A Wii U version was planned, but never released.

Nova-111	Players shoot their way through planets in an orange spaceship. The mission is to search for lost scientists in the aftermath of the science experiments.

Nuclear Throne	Nuclear Throne is a bullet hell roguelike video game developed by Vlambeer. Early prototypes of the game were distributed through Steam's early access program in 2013. Nuclear Throne was released for Linux, Microsoft Windows, OS X, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation Vita in December 2015, for Nintendo Switch in March 2019, and for Xbox One in September 2021.

Obduction	The game was funded via a Kickstarter campaign in October 2013, and was released in August 2016 for Windows-based PCs, with a macOS version released in March 2017. A virtual reality version for Oculus Rift system was published in November 2016, while HTC Vive and Oculus Touch versions were released on March 22, 2017. The PlayStation 4 version was launched in August 2017 with a patch arriving shortly afterwards to support PlayStation VR. The Xbox One version of the game was released on April 10, 2020. The game was made available for Amazon Luna on October 20, 2020.

Observation	Observation is an adventure-puzzle video game developed by No Code and published by Devolver Digital.  The game, described as sci-fi thriller, puts the player in control of a space station AI in order to recover from the sudden, mysterious loss of its crew. Observation was released for Microsoft Windows and PlayStation 4 on May 21, 2019 and for Xbox One on June 25, 2020.

Observer	Observer (stylised as >observer_) is a psychological horror video game developed by Bloober Team and published by Aspyr. It was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in August 2017, followed by versions for Linux, macOS and Nintendo Switch. An upgraded and expanded version called Observer: System Redux was released in November 2020 for Windows, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X/S, for Amazon Luna in March 2021, and for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in July 2021. Observer follows Daniel Lazarski, a detective known as an Observer, who can hack people's minds as a method of interrogation.

Occultic;Nine	Occultic;Nine (Japanese: , Hepburn: Okarutikku Nain) is a Japanese light novel series written by Chiyomaru Shikura, and is a part of the Science Adventure franchise. It was later adapted into a visual novel and published by Mages in November 2017. The light novel series is licensed in English by J-Novel Club. A manga, illustrated by Ganjii, was serialized in Kodansha's good! Afternoon from October 2015 to May 2017. An anime television series adaptation by A-1 Pictures aired between October and December 2016.

Oceanhorn: Monster of Uncharted Seas	The gameplay and graphic design of Oceanhorn closely follows that of The Legend of Zelda video games, notably The Wind Waker and A Link to the Past. Players explore dungeons, fight monsters with various weapons, and throw pots and cut bushes to find hidden coins or hearts. The music of Oceanhorn was composed by Kalle Ylitalo, with a few additional compositions by Kenji Ito and Nobuo Uematsu. A prequel, titled Oceanhorn 2: Knights of the Lost Realm, was released in September 2019.

Octodad: Dadliest Catch	Octodad: Dadliest Catch requires the player to control the protagonist, Octodad, as he maneuvers his way through increasingly complex challenges all while attempting to hide the fact that he is a cephalopod in human clothing. The player can control one of two sets of tentacles, mimicking arms and legs, switching between the two with a single button. The player is able to pick up and throw loose items as well, through manipulation of these tentacles. To maintain Octodad's identity, the player must avoid causing too much chaos in moving the character around while in sight of certain non-player characters, like guards or scientists, as tracked by a gauge in the game; how quickly these characters catch on is set by the game's difficulty level. If the gauge becomes full, the player will be forced to restart at a recent checkpoint. The game is divided into several levels with various objectives to be completed to progress in a level. For example, in a supermarket, the player must collect several grocery items before being given their next task. A multiplayer co-op mode is also available where up to four players control four limbs.

Odallus: The Dark Call	An army of demons burn Haggis's village and take his son; Haggis goes into action to defeat them. It appears that a mysterious cult has kidnapped his son for plans of a dark sacrifice. Haggis battles his way from the village to a castle on top of a nearby mountain; twice battling two demonic generals on the way, killing one and forcing the other - a woman - to retreat. Along the way he collects mysterious shards that ultimately form the Odallus orb. At the castle's throne room, their leader reveals himself to be Haggis' son, somehow aged to adulthood and claiming to have lived a thousand years. He offers to share the power of the Odallus with his father and rule jointly as the new gods of the world, but Haggis refuses and slays his son. Immediately regretful, he is soon filled with the power of the Odallus, and refuses to rule the world; deciding, instead, that the world has no more need of gods. He summons a pillar of energy that destroys the castle - and presumably himself - as the female general looks on from the distance.

Oddworld: New 'n' Tasty!	A sequel, Oddworld: Soulstorm, was released in April 2021.

Odin Sphere: Leifthrasir	Odin Sphere is an action role-playing game developed by Vanillaware for the PlayStation 2. It was published by Atlus (Japan and North America) in 2007, and by Square Enix (Europe) in 2008. A remake, titled Odin Sphere Leifthrasir, was released on PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation Vita in 2016: Atlus handled publishing duties in Japan and North America, while NIS America published the title in PAL territories.

OK K.O.! Let's Play Heroes	When Lord Boxman takes away all the levels of the heroes' pow cards, K.O. must set things right and learn at heart that he is a true hero.

kami HD	kami (Japanese: , lit. "great god" or "great spirit"; also , "wolf") is an action-adventure video game developed by Clover Studio and published by Capcom. It was released for PlayStation 2 in 2006 in Japan and North America, and in 2007 in Europe and Australia. After the closure of Clover Studio a few months after the release, a port for Wii was developed by Ready at Dawn, Tose, and Capcom, and released in 2008.

Old Man's Journey	Old Man's Journey is an adventure video game developed and published by Broken Rules. The game was released for Android, iOS, macOS and Windows in 2017, the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 in 2018 and the Xbox One in 2019.

OlliOlli	OlliOlli is a skateboarding video game developed and published by Roll7. It was released for PlayStation Vita on 21 January 2014 in North America, and on 22 January 2014 in Europe.

OlliOlli2: Welcome to Olliwood	OlliOlli2: Welcome to Olliwood is a skateboarding video game developed and published by Roll7 for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita. The game was announced on 25 September 2014 as the sequel to the critically acclaimed OlliOlli, and was released on 3 March 2015 in North America and on 4 March 2015 in the PAL region. OlliOlli2 was released free to PlayStation Plus members. The game was ported to PC by BlitWorks and published by Devolver Digital, releasing it for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux on 11 August 2015.

Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 - The Official Video Game	The following events are in the game: four additional sports were added to the game as updates.

Omega Quintet	Omega Quintet takes place in a world that is being damaged by a phenomenon known as the Beep ("Blare" in the English version), which has been degenerating the life of humankind by affecting their minds. The game's prominent characters are the "Verse Maidens", an idol group with the power to fight off the Beep. These powers are used to fight the Beep and save mankind, by giving them hope and dreams. The members of the Verse Maidens are Otoha, Kyoka, Kanadeko, Nene, and Aria. Otoha is a new member of the Verse Maidens, who would prefer to sleep and goof off than work hard, constantly forces the other party members to go along with her ideas, insults her childhood friend frequently and doesn't like whenever someone disagrees with her. She is a perpetually positive, but can also be a little idiotic. She is still growing and can be prone to making clumsy mistakes. Kyoka has a strong sense of responsibility who does her job as a Verse Maiden while caring for others, and also has a hard time expressing feelings. Kanadeko has a reckless, tomboyish personality and an intellect similar to Otoha's (i.e. none) who often makes decisions without thinking, Nene is very timid and often nervous and weak-willed, who often shies away and hides behind Kanadeko, and Aria, who is the eldest member of the Verse Maidens, who is mysterious and tends to distance herself with her speech and behavior. Other characters include Takt, protagonist of Omega Quintet, described as a cynical guy who was forced and guilt-tripped into agreeing to work as the Verse Maidens' manager and bodyguard, Momoka, a veteran Verse Maiden, Ayumi, Momoka's manager, Shiori, Kyoka's coach, Godou, the leader of the neighbourhood watch, and Tomekichi, a fan of the Verse Maidens and the leader of one of the supporting fan groups.

Omensight	The game centers around the player's role as the Harbinger, a mythical warrior who only appears in times of great crisis. The game's world, Urralia, has been destroyed by a dark god after the death of the priestess Vera. The player is called to use the Omensight power to travel back in time and relive the day of Vera's murder again and again until the murder can be solved and prevented. Preventing the murder prevents the end of the world.
Over the course of the game, the Harbinger comes in contact with four other companion characters who are the key to solving the crisis. These are Ludomir, an alcoholic but a powerful Rodentian freedom fighter, Vera's brother Draga, the studious and honorable general of the Pygarian Army, Ratika, a cool and sardonic magical bard and leader of the Rodentian Forces, and Indrik, the ruthless and impatient Emperor of Pygaria. She will not hesitate to kill any of them if they get in the way of her investigation or obtaining vital information to solve the murder and stop the apocalypse.

One Finger Death Punch 2	One Finger Death Punch is a beat 'em up video game developed and produced by Canadian indie studio Silver Dollar Games. It was originally released for Xbox 360 on June 24, 2013 and Microsoft Windows on March 3, 2014, then was ported to Android on March 25, 2015 and ported to iOS on June 12, 2015. The game has two main modes; a campaign and survival mode. In the campaign, the player must navigate a map and beat all of the levels whilst the survival mode has the player fight as long as they can before dying.

Onechanbara Origin	Players guide their characters through the stages, completing tasks while fighting through enemies. The player-character's weapon becomes progressively covered in blood, causing their attacks to be slower and to inflict less damage, even getting stuck in enemies if it gets too bad. This is represented by a "Blood Meter" showing how dirty the weapon is. To prevent this, players must actively clean off their sword to keep the blood meter from filling up.

Onechanbara Z2: Chaos	The gameplay has been compared to Bayonetta, and revolves around hack and slash combat. Throughout the game, two sets of playable characters can be swapped with on the fly, each boasting their own unique attacks and abilities (the characters at hand depend on the given stage). Throughout the game, players will earn yellow orbs, which represent the form of currency. These orbs may be exchanged for new combat moves and gear.

One Night Stand	Players take the role of a man who has just woken up beside a woman in her apartment. Despite not remembering the events of the previous night, the player learns their character has had sex with the woman. When the woman leaves the room, the player has the opportunity to look around, then question the woman about the various objects found. Based on the player's actions and dialogue choices, they can unlock many different endings, ranging from being angrily kicked out to the possibility of friendship. In the most recent update, there is an ending of her playing the guitar and becoming more than friends with the character.

One Piece: Burning Blood	One Piece: Burning Blood is a fighting game, which features a cel-shaded artstyle, similar to the One Piece anime. The game also features an "advanced battle system", which allows players to perform stronger attacks and block normal attacks from enemies. Similar to the Grand Battle! series, Burning Blood is a 1-on-1 (and up to 9 vs 9) fighting game. It focuses on fighting as well as devil fruit abilities, with Logia users being able to use their powers to avoid damage.

One Piece Odyssey	One Piece Odyssey is a turn-based role-playing game in which players control Monkey D. Luffy and the Straw Hat Pirates. Every playable character has a unique ability in line with their powers, which are used for traversal, collecting items, and solving puzzles. After engaging an enemy in the field, the game transitions to the battle screen, where the characters' actions are controlled using menu commands. The combat system revolves around "Scramble Area Battles" system, where battles are divided into several areas. 

One Piece: Pirate Warriors 3	One Piece: Pirate Warriors 3 is an action video game, developed by Omega Force and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Windows. The game is the sequel to One Piece: Pirate Warriors 2, released in Japan on March 26, 2015 and subsequently in the West on August 25, 2015. This is the last One Piece video game released for the PlayStation 3. An enhanced port for the Nintendo Switch was released in December 2017. It is the third installment in the Pirate Warriors video-game series.

One Piece: Pirate Warriors 4	One Piece: Pirate Warriors 4 is an action-adventure video game developed by Omega Force and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. It is the fourth installment in Pirate Warriors video-game series, based on the One Piece franchise. It is a sequel to the 2015 game One Piece: Pirate Warriors 3. It was released on March 27, 2020.

One Piece: Unlimited World Red Deluxe Edition	An enhanced port of the game was released on the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4, as well as Steam in Japan on August 24, 2017.

One Piece: World Seeker	The game features the talents of One Piece anime producer Hiroki Koyama from Toei Animation, One Piece media supervisor Suguru Sugita from Shueisha, One Piece game supervisor Yuji Suzuki from Shueisha, and One Piece game producer Kji Nakajima from Bandai Namco Entertainment.

One-Punch Man: A Hero Nobody Knows	The game is a 3D fighting game in which one to two players battle using teams of three characters. The title character Saitama is invulnerable to other characters' attacks, and can defeat them in a single punch, but if a player picks him for their team, he will arrive late to the battle; as such, that player needs to make it through the match with the other two characters in their team until Saitama arrives. An alternative version of Saitama without these attributes, called the "Dream Version", is also playable.

Oniken	The game has an 8-bit style and follows a classic slasher gameplay formula similar to Strider, Ninja Gaiden and Shatterhand.

Onimusha: Warlords	Onimusha: Warlords, known in Japan as Onimusha (Japanese: ), is an action-adventure hack and slash video game developed and published by Capcom for the PlayStation 2. The first entry of the Onimusha series, it was originally released in 2001. An updated form as Genma Onimusha (Japanese:  ) for the Xbox was released in 2002. The original Warlords version was ported to Microsoft Windows, although it was only available in China and Russia. A remaster for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One was released in 2018, with a Windows version following in 2019.

Oninaki	Oninaki is a 2019 action role-playing game developed by Tokyo RPG Factory and published by Square Enix for PlayStation 4, Windows and Nintendo Switch. Gameplay has players exploring dungeon areas selected from a world map, fighting enemies in real-time combat with spirit weapons called Daemons while shifting between the worlds of the living and the dead. Oninaki is set in a world where the doctrine of reincarnation is enforced by figures called Watchers, who assist in the passing of souls and fight monsters born of regret. The player controls the Watcher Kagachi as he confronts a shrouded figure called the Night Devil, uncovering hidden truths surrounding the cycle of reincarnation and his own past life.

Onrush	Onrush (stylized as ONRUSH) is a racing game developed by Codemasters and published by Deep Silver for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It was developed by Codemasters and the team from Evolution Studios. Onrush servers officially shut down on November 30th, 2022.

Open Roads	Open Roads is an upcoming interactive movie mystery-thriller video game developed by Open Roads Team and published by Annapurna Interactive. The game is scheduled to release for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on March 28, 2024.

The Order: 1886	The Order: 1886 is a 2015 third-person action-adventure video game developed by Ready at Dawn and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. It was released for PlayStation 4 on February 20, 2015. Set in an 1886 alternate history steampunk London, the game follows the Knights of the Round Table as they battle to keep the world safe from half-breeds, such as werewolves and vampires, as well as fringe organizations rebelling against the government.

Order of Battle: World War II	Order of Battle: Pacific is a computer wargame video game developed by The Artistocrats and published by Slitherine Software for Windows on April 30, 2015. The game became free-to-play and was renamed to Order of Battle: World War II on June 14, 2016. The Pacific campaign became downloadable content (DLC) for World War II.

Organ Trail	An expanded version, The Organ Trail: Director's Cut, was released on mobile devices in August 2012. That same month the Director's Cut was also posted on Steam Greenlight; after receiving enough support, it was released on Steam for Windows, Mac, and Linux on March 19, 2013. The expanded version was developed by Michael Block and Ryan Wiemeyer, founders of the company The Men Who Wear Many Hats.

Our World is Ended	The game plays as a traditional visual novel, largely entailing reading with limited player interaction. Player choice primarily comes in the form of the game's SOS (Selection of Soul) system; when at a branching point, the game flow will pause, and a number of dialogue choices will quickly scroll across the screen. The player must quickly choose an option, which will change the course of the conversation. Not answering is an option as well, though it generally incurs a negative outcome from associated characters.

Outer Wilds	Outer Wilds is a 2019 action-adventure game developed by Mobius Digital and published by Annapurna Interactive. It released for Microsoft Windows and Xbox One in May 2019, for PlayStation 4 in October 2019, for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in September 2022, and for Nintendo Switch in December 2023. The game features the player character exploring a solar system stuck in a 22-minute time loop that ends with the sun going supernova. The player progresses through Outer Wilds by exploring the system and learning clues to the cause of the time loop. 

The Outer Worlds	The Outer Worlds is a 2019 action role-playing game developed by Obsidian Entertainment and published by Private Division. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in October 2019, with a Nintendo Switch version released in June 2020. The game received generally positive reviews from critics and sold over four million units by August 2021.

Outlast	Suggest me a horror game?<mct>Outlast was released for Microsoft Windows on September 4, 2013, PlayStation 4 on February 4, 2014, and for Xbox One on June 19, 2014.  Linux and OS X versions were released on March 31, 2015. A Nintendo Switch version titled Outlast: Bundle of Terror was released in February 2018.

Outlast 2	Outlast 2 (stylized as OULASTII) is a 2017 first-person psychological survival horror video game developed and published by Red Barrels. A sequel to the 2013 video game Outlast, the game features a cameraman named Blake Langermann, along with his wife Lynn, a journalist roaming the Arizona desert to explore the murder of a pregnant woman only known as Jane Doe. Both get separated in a helicopter crash, and Blake has to find his wife while traveling through a village inhabited by a deranged sect that believes the end of days are upon them.

Outriders	Outriders is a third-person shooter mixed with elements from role-playing games. In the beginning of the game, players create their custom characters and choose from four classes, each of them with unique abilities that the players can use. The four classes include the Trickster, which has the ability to manipulate time, the Pyromancer, which can manipulate fire, the Devastator, which can unleash seismic attacks, and the Technomancer, which uses turrets and other devices. These special skills have a short cooldown time and can be combined with other skills for maximum  effects. The game features a skill tree that allows players to unlock and upgrade their skills.

Overcooked	Overcooked (stylised as Overcooked!) is a 2016 cooking simulation video game developed by Ghost Town Games and published by Team17. In a local cooperative experience, players control a number of chefs in kitchens filled with various obstacles and hazards to rapidly prepare meals to specific orders under a time limit. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in August 2016. A Nintendo Switch version was released in July 2017. 

Overcooked 2	Overcooked 2 (stylized as Overcooked! 2) is a cooperative cooking simulation video game developed by Team17 alongside Ghost Town Games, and published by Team17. The sequel to Overcooked!, it was released for Linux, macOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on August 7, 2018. The game was released for Amazon Luna on October 20, 2020. Overcooked: All You Can Eat, a compilation game that includes both Overcooked and Overcooked 2, was released for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S on November 12, 2020. The compilation came to Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on March 23, 2021, and on Google Stadia on May 5, 2022.

Overland	Overland is a turn-based tactics video game by Finji. It was released in September 2019 for iOS and macOS through Apple Arcade, Linux, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, and in December 2022 for PlayStation 5.

Overload	The game, which has been described as a 'spiritual successor' to the video games Descent and Descent II, received generally favorable reviews on release.

Overlord: Fellowship of Evil	Overlord: Fellowship of Evil is a fantasy action role-playing game developed and published by Codemasters. It is a spin-off of the Overlord series and was released on October 20, 2015 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.

Overwatch	Overwatch (retroactively referred to as Overwatch 1) was a 2016 team-based multiplayer first-person shooter game by Blizzard Entertainment. The game was first released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in May 2016 and Nintendo Switch in October 2019. Cross-platform play was supported across all platforms.

Overwatch 2	Overwatch 2 is a 2022 first-person shooter game developed and published by Blizzard Entertainment. As a sequel and replacement to the 2016 hero shooter Overwatch, the game intends a shared environment for player-versus-player (PvP) modes while initially having plans for introducing persistent cooperative modes, though the plans were later scrapped in 2023, focusing the game on its PvP elements. A major change in PvP modes was to reduce team sizes from six to five. Several major characters were also reworked. Overwatch 2 is free-to-play on Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S and features full cross-platform play. The game was released in early access on 4 October 2022. Blizzard dropped the early access label for the game on August 10, 2023 with the release of Overwatch 2's sixth season.

Owlboy	The player controls Otus, who is capable of flying and carrying objects during flight. These objects vary in use, but are mainly used as ranged weapons, thrown weapons, and puzzle-solving tools. As the game progresses, Otus gains allies that accompany him during his journey, each having their own weapon with exclusive properties.

Oxenfree	Oxenfree is a graphic adventure game developed and published by Night School Studio. It was released for OS X, Windows, and Xbox One in January 2016. PlayStation 4 and Linux versions were released later in 2016, followed by iOS, Android, and Nintendo Switch versions in 2017. In Oxenfree, players assume the role of the teenage girl Alex on a weekend trip to a local island. After seemingly supernatural events occur, Alex and her friends must unravel the secrets of the island.

Oxenfree II: Lost Signals	Oxenfree II: Lost Signals is a supernatural mystery/horror graphic adventure game developed by Night School Studio and published by Netflix Games. The game was released for Android, iOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 and Windows on July 12, 2023.  A sequel to Oxenfree (2016), the game takes place five years after the events of the original game.

Pacer	Pacer, originally titled Formula Fusion, is a futuristic racing game by R8 Games for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It was initially set to release on September 17, 2020.  However, it was delayed until the end of September 2020. On October 19, R8 announced that the game would be released on October 29.

Pac-Man 256	Pac-Man 256 is an endless runner video game developed by Hipster Whale and 3 Sprockets and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. The game is part of the Pac-Man series and is inspired by the original Pac-Man game's infamous Level 256 glitch. The game was originally released as a free-to-play title for iOS and Android on August 20, 2015. In June 21, 2016, Bandai Namco Studios Vancouver released a version of the game for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC (Windows, macOS, Linux), featuring additional features like multiplayer for up to 4 players, a new power-up, and  no longer having to wait a certain amount of time to get power-ups, and instead having to eat a number of Pac-Dots. 

Pac-Man Championship Edition 2	Pac-Man Championship Edition 2 builds upon the gameplay introduced in Championship Edition and Championship Edition DX+, which added faster gameplay to the traditional Pac-Man formula. Taking control of Pac-Man, players go through various mazes collecting pellets while avoiding the roaming ghosts. Gathering enough pellets will either reveal a bonus item that sends Pac-Man to the next maze or a Power Pellet that can be used to eat ghosts. Unlike previous iterations of Pac-Man, in which touching ghosts would instantly kill Pac-Man, ghosts can now be bumped into up to three times in succession before they enter an Angry state, during which touching them will cause Pac-Man to lose a life. Similar to Championship DX, passing by sleeping ghosts will add them to a trail behind the other ghosts, allowing for large point bonuses when eaten. Players can also use jump pads to jump over parts of a maze and bombs to instantly return to the start of a maze. The game features two main modes: Score Attack, in which players must try and rack up a high score within a time limit, and Adventure, which requires players to clear several objectives, including fighting giant bosses. The Nintendo Switch 'Plus' version also features a co-op mode known as "Pac-Man Championship Edition 2 Plus 2P". Player 1 will play as a yellow Pac-Man, while Player 2 plays as a turquoise Pac-Man, and still following the same rules, Players 1 and 2 need to eat fruit together to get to the next maze. When a player gets caught by a ghost, the other will have a few seconds to save said player from losing a life. When there are only a few minutes left, a giant ghost will break the stage, putting both players in a bigger maze where they can jump around. While eating Power Pellets in this scenario, the players need to bump the giant ghost until they explode, letting them eat the fruit to get to the next stage.

Pac-Man Museum +	Pac-Man Museum + is a 2022 compilation video game developed by Now Production and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. Being a sequel to the 2014 compilation title Pac-Man Museum, Pac-Man Museum + includes 14 games from the Pac-Man series, with additional features such as missions and online leaderboards.

Pac-Man World Re-Pac	The game originally began as an open-world adventure game titled Pac-Man Ghost Zone, with development headed by director Bill Anderson and designer Scott Rogers. After being unhappy with the game's quality, Namco scrapped the game and fired nearly the entire team aside from Rogers and a few others. The development team focused on making the game live up to the "flavor and feel" of the original Pac-Man, and to successfully bring the character into an enjoyable 3D adventure game.

Panorama Cotton	Panorama Cotton is a pseudo-3D scrolling shooter reminiscent of Space Harrier, set in an anime-style fantasy world. Various levels scroll "into the screen", vertically, horizontally, or diagonally. The player can move Cotton over the screen, shooting at oncoming enemies and avoiding obstacles on her way. Cotton can upgrade her weapon to higher levels as you advance in the game, and can also cast magical spells by collecting special items.

Pang Adventures	Pang , originally released in Japan as Pomping World and known in North America as Buster Bros., is a 1989 action game released by Mitchell Corporation for arcades in 1989. It was the tenth game released for Capcom's CP System arcade hardware.

Panzer Dragoon: Remake	Panzer Dragoon is a 1995 rail shooter game for the Sega Saturn, published by Sega and developed by Sega's Team Andromeda studio. It is the first game in the Panzer Dragoon series. The game follows hunter Keil Fluge, who becomes the rider of a powerful dragon. The player moves an aiming reticle (representing the dragon's laser and Kyle's gun) and shoots enemies while the dragon flies through 3D environments on a predetermined track.

Paper Beast	Paper Beast is an adventure game played from a first-person perspective. In the game, players explore a large ecosystem composed of various digital life-forms originating from lost internet codes and algorithms deep inside the internet. In the adventure mode, the player assumes control of the first explorer and must navigate the world through manipulating the environment and interacting with the wildlife. Players are tasked to rescue them from dangers and predators, assist them in various ways, and use their abilities in order to progress in the game. The artificial intelligence, which governs the behaviors of these animals, will react to the player's actions accordingly. Each species in the game also behaves differently and they have their own unique goals. The player can also modify the terrain so as to overcome environmental obstacles.

Paranautical Activity	The game struggled with Valve's Steam service. Valve initially refused to allow it on its Greenlight system while the developer was in talks with another publisher, and later pulled it from Steam after its lead developer, Mike Maulbeck, threatened Valve's CEO, Gabe Newell, on social media. The game's development was transferred to a new studio, Digerati, and re-released on Steam under a "Deluxe Atonement" version that included new content.

PaRappa the Rapper Remastered	PaRappa the Rapper () is a Japanese-American rhythm video game developed by NanaOn-Sha and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation in Japan in 1996 and worldwide in 1997. Created by music producer Masaya Matsuura in collaboration with artist Rodney Greenblat, the game features unique visual design and rap-based gameplay and is considered the first true rhythm game. It was ported to the PlayStation Portable in 2006 in celebration of its 10-year anniversary. A remastered version of the original PlayStation game was released for PlayStation 4 in 2017 for the game's twentieth anniversary.

The Park	The Park is experienced from a first-person perspective as the player, Lorraine, interacts with and experiences the decrepit environment of Atlantic Island Park. The game does not feature combat or enemies, and Lorraine can only interact with limited objects, mainly notes that reveal the backstory of the park. Lorraine can call out to character Callum and follow his voice to reach areas or objectives within the park, such as the rides. There are seven different rides to experience, including a dark ride and a roller coaster.  The rides further the story, and provide scares. Throughout the game, Lorraine narrates her feelings and memories.

Party Hard	Party Hard is an action stealth video game developed by Pinokl Games and published by tinyBuild for Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch. A mobile port, Party Hard Go, was released for Fire OS, iOS, and Android. In the game, players assume the role of a serial killer who infiltrates several parties with the objective of killing all attendants without getting caught.

Party Hard 2	Party Hard is an action stealth video game developed by Pinokl Games and published by tinyBuild for Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch. A mobile port, Party Hard Go, was released for Fire OS, iOS, and Android. In the game, players assume the role of a serial killer who infiltrates several parties with the objective of killing all attendants without getting caught.

Patapon 2 Remastered	After the Patapon and Zigoton tribe finish the construction of their ship, they set sail to continue their journey to Earthend to gaze upon "IT". After some time at sea, their ship is struck down by a sea monster and both Patapons and Zigotons drift ashore on an unknown island where they encounter a new enemy tribe known as the Karmen and a lone Patapon known as "Hero". The player takes the role of an invisible deity known as The Mighty Patapon and commands the Patapon Tribe to march, attack, defend, and retreat. The game introduces a new way to evolve the Patapon army, and new units to unlock including a singular Hero Patapon that can be used for four-player ad hoc multiplayer mode. 

Pathfinder: Kingmaker	Pathfinder: Kingmaker is an isometric role-playing game developed by Russian studio Owlcat Games and published by Deep Silver, based on Paizo Publishing's Pathfinder franchise. Announced through a Kickstarter campaign in 2017, the game was released for Microsoft Windows, macOS, and Linux on 25 September 2018.

The Pathless	The Pathless is an action-adventure video game played from a third-person perspective. In the game, the player controls the Hunter, who must find a way to lift the curse on an island. The Hunter is a master archer. She must use her bows and arrows to shoot talismans scattered throughout the world, which will fill the Hunter's dash meter and allow her to swiftly navigate the game's world. She is also accompanied by an eagle companion, which can carry the player while flying. The eagle loses altitude while carrying the Hunter, though it can gain altitude through flapping its wings.

Pathologic 2	Pathologic 2 (Russian: , tr. Mor, .mw-parser-output .IPA-label-small{font-size:85%}.mw-parser-output .references .IPA-label-small,.mw-parser-output .infobox .IPA-label-small,.mw-parser-output .navbox .IPA-label-small{font-size:100%}IPA: , lit. 'Pestilence') is a 2019 horror-themed role-playing game developed by Russian game development studio Ice-Pick Lodge and published by tinyBuild. Pathologic 2 was originally conceived of as a remake of the developer's earlier 2005 video game Pathologic, but during development grew to encompass a much greater scope. The game has variously been described as a remake, a reboot and a remaster, and draws elements from all three. Three storylines have been planned for the game, mirroring the stories of the Bachelor, Haruspex and Changeling from the original Pathologic. The game was released with the story of the Haruspex on 23 May 2019.

PAW Patrol: On a Roll	PAW Patrol: On a Roll is a side-scrolling video game in which players assist the PAW Patrol by acquiring dog treats and helping animals.  Animals are helped by approaching them on the opposite side of the screen.

PAW Patrol Mighty Pups: Save Adventure Bay	PAW Patrol is a Canadian animated television series created by Keith Chapman and produced by Spin Master Entertainment, with animation provided by Guru Studio. In Canada, the series is primarily broadcast on TVOntario as part of the TVOKids programing block. TVO first ran previews of the show in August 2013. The series premiered on Nickelodeon in the United States on August 12, 2013.

Payday 2: Crimewave Edition	Payday 2 is a cooperative first-person shooter video game developed by Overkill Software and published by 505 Games. The game is a sequel to 2011's Payday: The Heist. It was released in August 2013 for Windows, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. A remastered version of the game, subtitled Crimewave Edition, was released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in June 2015 and for the Nintendo Switch in February 2018.

PC Building Simulator	The game was independently developed by Kiss before it was picked up by indie publisher The Irregular Corporation in 2017. It was initially released for early access in March 2018 on Steam.  The game is compatible with the Windows operating system, and utilizes the OpenGL programming interface.

The Peanuts Movie: Snoopy's Grand Adventure	The player plays as Snoopy and can play as Woodstock in co-op to help find Charlie Brown and his friends. In order to do this the player must go through several levels, each one ending at Snoopy's Doghouse.  Along the way the player will collect Jelly Beans, use various costumes, and find members of the Beagle Scouts. The player is able to customize Snoopy and Woodstock.

The Pedestrian	The Pedestrian is a side scrolling puzzle-platform game developed and published by American studio Skookum Arts LLC. The game was originally released in January 2020 for Linux, macOS, and Microsoft Windows. In August 2020, a port for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5 was announced for January 2021, during a State of Play presentation. It later released for Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S in January 2022. It was eventually released on the Nintendo Switch in January 18, 2024.

Peggle 2	The goal of Peggle 2 is to clear all 25 orange pegs from the board with 10 balls to shoot from with a cannon at the top of the screen. 72 blue pegs, two green pegs and one purple peg which moves on each shot are randomly placed on the board. With the green peg, it enables the "masters" power on next shot or even on current shot. The game uses a multiplier feature which multiplies the players score by the number of pegs that the player hits. The more orange pegs are hit, the higher the multiplier (stylized as multiplizer in-game), the more points are earned. The multiplizer starts at "x1" and will go to "x2", "x3", "x5", and lastly "x10". Blue pegs are worth 10x the points of orange pegs, and purples are 50x the worth of orange pegs.

Penguin Wars	The player participates in a sport called "Dojiball" (, dojibru), a pun on the Japanese pronunciation of "Dodgeball". In the arcade and Famicom editions of the game, the five animals featured are the penguin, bear, panda, koala and beaver, with the penguin being controlled by the player. In the Game Boy version, the player can choose as any one of the five animals, which, in addition to the penguin, are a cow, rabbit, bat, and rat. In all versions of the game, the player plays against all the other animals. In each game, the participating animals find each other on opposite sides of a square table with five balls on each side. The object of the game is to roll those balls over the table. As soon as all ten balls are on one player's side, that player loses the game. Each game also has a time limit of 60 seconds; if that is reached, the player with the fewest balls on their side wins.

Perception	The development team behind Perception consists of several former Irrational Games employees that had worked on BioShock (2007) and BioShock Infinite (2013).

Persona 3: Dancing in Moonlight	Persona 3: Dancing in Moonlight and Persona 5: Dancing in Starlight are 2018 rhythm games by Atlus for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita. Forming part of the Persona seriesitself part of the larger Megami Tensei franchisethe games respectively feature the central casts of the 2006 role-playing video game Persona 3 and the 2016 role-playing video game Persona 5. Gameplay focuses on characters from Persona 3 or Persona 5 taking part in rhythm-based gameplay set to original and remixed music from Persona 3 or Persona 5.

Persona 4 Arena Ultimax	Arena Ultimax takes place immediately after Persona 4 Arena; Arena is set two months after the events of Persona 4, and two years after Persona 3. After a supernatural red fog covers the town of Inaba, the Investigation Team of Persona 4 team up with the Shadow Operativesa group formed by the SEES of Persona 3to uncover the truth behind the P-1 Grand Prix and confront Sho Minazuki, a hostile Persona user.

Persona 4: Dancing All Night	Persona 4: Dancing All Night is a 2015 rhythm video game developed by P-Studio and published by Atlus for the PlayStation Vita. The game is a spin-off of Persona 4 (2008), which is part of the Persona anthology of Megami Tensei games. The game received generally positive reviews from critics. A port for the PlayStation 4 was included with the Endless Night Collection of Persona 3: Dancing in Moonlight and Persona 5: Dancing in Starlight.

Persona 4 Golden	Persona 4, released outside Japan as Shin Megami Tensei: Persona 4, is a 2008 role-playing video game by Atlus. It is chronologically the fifth installment in the Persona series, itself a part of the larger Megami Tensei franchise, and was released for the PlayStation 2 in Japan in July 2008, North America in December 2008, and Europe in March 2009 as one of the final major exclusives for the system. It was re-released as a PlayStation 2 Classic for the PlayStation 3 in April 2014. Persona 4 takes place in a fictional Japanese countryside and is indirectly related to earlier Persona games. The player-named protagonist is a high-school student who moved into the countryside from the city for a year. During his year-long stay, he becomes involved in investigating mysterious murders with a group of friends while harnessing the power to summon physical manifestations of their psyches known as a Persona.

Persona 5	Persona 5 is a 2016 role-playing video game developed by P-Studio and published by Atlus. The game is the sixth installment in the Persona series, itself a part of the larger Megami Tensei franchise. It was released for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 in Japan in September 2016 and worldwide in April 2017. It was published by Atlus in Japan and North America, and by Deep Silver in PAL territories. An enhanced version featuring new content, Persona 5 Royal, was released for PlayStation 4 in Japan in October 2019 and worldwide in March 2020. It was published by Atlus in Japan and worldwide by its parent company Sega. Persona 5 Royal was later released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S in October 2022.

Persona 5: Dancing Star Night	Persona 3: Dancing in Moonlight and Persona 5: Dancing in Starlight are 2018 rhythm games by Atlus for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita. Forming part of the Persona seriesitself part of the larger Megami Tensei franchisethe games respectively feature the central casts of the 2006 role-playing video game Persona 3 and the 2016 role-playing video game Persona 5. Gameplay focuses on characters from Persona 3 or Persona 5 taking part in rhythm-based gameplay set to original and remixed music from Persona 3 or Persona 5.

Persona 5 Royal	Persona 5 is a 2016 role-playing video game developed by P-Studio and published by Atlus. The game is the sixth installment in the Persona series, itself a part of the larger Megami Tensei franchise. It was released for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 in Japan in September 2016 and worldwide in April 2017. It was published by Atlus in Japan and North America, and by Deep Silver in PAL territories. An enhanced version featuring new content, Persona 5 Royal, was released for PlayStation 4 in Japan in October 2019 and worldwide in March 2020. It was published by Atlus in Japan and worldwide by its parent company Sega. Persona 5 Royal was later released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S in October 2022.

Persona 5 Strikers	Persona 5 Strikers is an action role-playing game developed by Omega Force and P-Studio and published by Atlus. The game is a crossover between Koei Tecmo's Dynasty Warriors franchise and the Persona series developed by Atlus. The game's narrative is set half a year after the events of Persona 5, and follows Joker and the rest of the Phantom Thieves of Hearts as they investigate a series of mysterious events involving people across Japan.

PGA Tour 2K21	PGA Tour 2K21 received generally favorable reviews, with critics feeling that the game preserved the realism of its predecessors, while adding more difficulty levels and assists to make it more accessible to a wider audience.

Phantom Breaker: Battle Grounds Overdrive	On March 12, 2013, a downloadable content add-on, the "Kurisu Pack," was released which adds Makise Kurisu from the Steins;Gate franchise as a playable character and raises the maximum character level. On November 18, 2016 two additional DLC packs were released, the "Frau Pack" adds Frau Kjiro from the Robotics;Notes franchise as a playable character, while the "BGM Pack" adds programmable sound generator and frequency modulation versions of the background music. The game was featured in the official music video of "Move" by I Fight Dragons.

Phantom Breaker: Omnia	The latest update, Phantom Breaker: Omnia, was released worldwide in March 2022 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch and PC via Steam by Rocket Panda Games.

Phantom Doctrine	Set in 1983, Phantom Doctrine takes place in an alternative Cold War where brainwashing is a real danger and secret organizations control the world. The player-character is a former agent of the CIA, KGB or Mossad who learns of a global conspiracy called "The Beholder Initiative". 

Phoenix Point	Phoenix Point is a strategy video game featuring a turn-based tactics system that is developed by Bulgaria-based independent developer Snapshot Games. It was released on December 3, 2019, for macOS and Microsoft Windows, for Stadia on January 26, 2021, and Xbox One and PlayStation 4 on October 1, 2021. Phoenix Point is intended to be a spiritual successor to the X-COM series that had been originally created by Snapshot Games head Julian Gollop during the 1990s.

Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Trilogy	A high-definition version of the first three Ace Attorney games, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Trilogy HD, was released for iOS and Android in Japan on February 7, 2012, and for iOS in the West on May 30, 2013. This legacy mobile version has since been delisted, being replaced by the Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Trilogy release on iOS and Android on June 10, 2022.

Phoenotopia: Awakening	Phoenotopia: Awakening is a 2020 action-adventure game developed and published by Cape Cosmic. It was released on Nintendo Switch in 2020, and later on Microsoft Windows, macOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S in 2021.

Phogs!	Phogs! is a puzzle-platform game where players control a dog called Red and Blue. The game can be played in local and online multiplayer. Each dog is controlled by an individual player. It can also be played in single-player, which allows a player to fully control the dog. The game's levels are split into three worlds: Food, Play, and Sleep. Each world contains six stages, and ends with a boss battle. The dog can be stretched, and can use its mouths to grab objects. Some objects can be transmitted through the dog. If one side of the dog bites onto a water pipe, the water will come out of the other mouth. Hats are purchased with golden bones, which can be found in the game's levels. Non-player characters can be found in the game. Some may ask for items in exchange for golden bones.

Pier Solar and the Great Architects	The story is focused around three best friends  Hoston, Alina and Edessot. Hoston's father falls ill and the three friends are left to seek a rare magic herb to cure him. This story later develops into a much larger plot surrounding Pier Solar and the Great Architects.

Pillar	Pillar is made up of several levels, each starring a different character with their own set of gameplay mechanics. Examples include introverted characters who can only be around NPCs for so long before their energy drains, resulting in the player using stealth strategies. Extroverted characters are tasked with repairing and turning on lightposts throughout the town, they can only complete these puzzles by interacting with other extroverts, responding to moves they have made.

Pillars of Eternity	Pillars of Eternity is a role-playing video game developed by Obsidian Entertainment and published by Paradox Interactive. It was released for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux on March 26, 2015. The game is a spiritual successor to the Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale series, along with Planescape: Torment. Obsidian started a crowdfunding campaign on Kickstarter for it in September 2012. The campaign raised over US$4 million, which was the highest funded video game at the time. The game uses the Unity engine.

Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire	Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire is a role-playing video game developed by Obsidian Entertainment and published by Versus Evil. It is the sequel to 2015's Pillars of Eternity, and was released for Microsoft Windows, Linux, macOS in May 2018, and for PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in January 2020. A version for the Nintendo Switch was originally announced in 2018, but has been ultimately cancelled in February 2022 after multiple delays. The game was announced in January 2017 with a crowdfunding campaign on Fig, where it reached its funding goal within a day.

The Pillars of the Earth	Ken Follett's The Pillars of the Earth is a point-and-click adventure video game developed and published by German studio Daedalic Entertainment. It is based on Ken Folletts award-winning 1989 novel of the same name, which was adapted as a video game across 21 playable chapters. Book 1 of the game was released on 16 August 2017, Book 2 on 13 December 2017, and Book 3 on 29 March 2018.

Pinstripe	Pinstripe is a puzzle adventure video game developed by Thomas Brush, who created and designed it over a five-year period and was published by Armor Games. It was released in April 2017 for Linux, macOS, and Windows, in February 2018 for Xbox One and PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch in October 2018, and for iOS in October 2021.

PixArk	The player is on an island populated by over 100 different dinosaur species. These can be killed or tamed and ridden. In addition, the player must ensure their survival by mining resources, making objects, building structures and defending themselves against enemy animals and other players. The world is made up of individual voxels, so the player can manipulate and adapt the world by removing or adding blocks. The world has several areas such as jungle, desert and caves and is generated procedurally, so it is not prefabricated. Likewise, the quest system is procedural and always creates new challenges. In addition to the survival mode, the player can also focus on building in creative mode without being attacked and collecting resources.

Pix the Cat	Pix the Cat is a mash-up of Snake and Pac-Man. Some levels are fast paced, where Pix must constantly collect ducklings without crashing its growing tail into an obstacle. Other levels only require a few items to be collected, but require more strategy.

Pixel Piracy	Pixel Piracy is a side-scrolling real-time strategy and indie game with roguelike elements, developed by Quadro Delta. In the game, players construct a pirate ship, hire and train a crew, and guide their crew toward notoriety as renowned pirates.

PixelJunk Monsters 2	PixelJunk Monsters Encore, an expansion pack for the game, was released on April 24, 2008 in Japan; May 8, 2008 in North America; and May 15, 2008 in Europe.

PixelJunk Shooter Ultimate	In PixelJunk Shooter, up to two players can control their own subterranean vehicles to rescue a number of surviving scientists trapped underground. Using their ships' missiles, players can defeat enemies and destroy weak rock to progress through the environment. In addition to rock and ice, players must manipulate three types of fluid (water, magma, and ferrofluid) in order to reach the survivors. Once each survivor is rescued or killed, players may progress to the next part of the stage. If too many survivors are killed, players are forced to quit or restart the stage. The game has fifteen stages divided evenly among three "episodes", each episode ending with a boss encounter.

Plague Inc: Evolved	Plague Inc: Evolved is a real-time strategy simulation video game, developed and published by UK-based independent games studio Ndemic Creations. The game is a remake of the developer's previous game, Plague Inc., adapted for PC and consoles. In the game, the player creates and evolves a pathogen in an effort to destroy the world with a deadly plague. The game uses an epidemic model with a complex and realistic set of variables to simulate the spread and severity of the plague, and has attracted the attention of the CDC.

Planescape: Torment: Enhanced Edition	Planescape: Torment is a 1999 role-playing video game developed by Black Isle Studios and published by Interplay Entertainment for Windows. The game takes place in locations from the multiverse of Planescape, a Dungeons & Dragons (D&D) fantasy campaign setting. The game's engine is a modified version of the Infinity Engine, which was used for BioWare's Baldur's Gate, a previous D&D game set in the Forgotten Realms.

Planet Coaster: Console Edition	Planet Coaster is a construction and management simulation video game developed and published by Frontier Developments for Windows. It was released worldwide on 17 November 2016. Frontier had previously worked in the amusement park construction and management genre with RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 (to which Planet Coaster is a spiritual successor), Thrillville, Thrillville: Off the Rails, and Zoo Tycoon. A version for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S, known as Planet Coaster: Console Edition, was released worldwide on 10 November 2020. The PlayStation 5 version was released in North America and Australia on 12 November 2020 and in Europe on 19 November 2020. A macOS version, developed by Aspyr, was later released on 17 November 2020 on both Steam and Mac App Store.

Planet of the Apes: Last Frontier	Planet of the Apes: Last Frontier takes story cues from the film, aiming to be just as morally ambiguous, with no heroes or villains and no black and white decisions.

Plants vs Zombies: Battle for Neighborville	Similar to its predecessors, the game is a third-person shooter where players take control of the Plants (under Crazy Dave) or the Zombies (under Dr. Zomboss) in either a cooperative or competitive multiplayer environment. The game features 23 customizable gameplay classes, nine of which are new to the franchise. They are classified into four groups: attackers, defenders, supporters or swarm. Each team also has a new team play class that allows players of the same class to combine forms when they fight against enemies. Players can compete against each other in various competitive multiplayer modes, including the objective-based Turf Takeover mode and the team deathmatch variant Team Vanquish and many more. The game also features several player-versus-environment open zones which allow players to explore, find collectibles, and complete quests. Split-screen local multiplayer is also available for all gameplay modes.

Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare	Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare is a 2014 multiplayer third-person shooter and tower defense video game developed by PopCap Games and published by Electronic Arts. The third game in the Plants vs. Zombies franchise, the basic premise revolves around plants defending humankind from a zombie invasion. In the game, players assume control of either the Plants (under Crazy Dave) or the Zombies (under Dr. Zomboss), as they fight in various cooperative and competitive multiplayer modes. Upon completing matches and finishing objectives, players earn coins to acquire stickers that unlock customization items and character variants.

Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare 2	Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare 2 is a 2016 third-person shooter video game developed by PopCap Games and published by Electronic Arts. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. It is the sequel to Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare and the fourth game in the Plants vs. Zombies franchise. The game was released in February 2016. A successor, Plants vs. Zombies: Battle for Neighborville, was released in October 2019.

Plumbers Don't Wear Ties	Plumbers Don't Wear Ties is an adult-oriented "romantic comedy" visual novel/dating sim developed by United Pixtures and published by Kirin Entertainment for the 3DO Interactive Multiplayer. Although the game did have a Microsoft Windows version, it had very limited distribution and was published by United Pixtures itself. The game stars Edward J. Foster and Jeanne Basone as John and Jane, respectively; two people who are being pressured by their respective parents to go out and find a spouse. The player's task is to get John and Jane together.

Pneuma: Breath of Life	Pneuma: Breath of Life is a first-person puzzle video game developed and published by Deco Digital and Bevel Studios.  The game uses a narrated story focused on self-discovery and the fundamental nature of reality. The game was designed to test the Unreal Engine 4 and Physically Based Rendering. The game intends players to think outside of the box to solve a series of environmental challenges.

Pocket Academy	Kairosoft was founded as a djin games developer in 1996, and is currently located in the Nishi-Shinjuku district of Tokyo with only nine employees. They started out developing simulation games for the Windows platform, the first of which was released in 1996 and simulated a used bookstore, and another example was the original Game Dev Story released in 1997, with a sequel released in 2001. In 2001, Kairosoft switched to developing mobile simulation games for the Japanese cell phone market, which was much more developed than America's. The company was incorporated in September 2007, and launched a new website on November 4, 2008.

Pocket God vs Desert Ashes	The player takes the role of an omnipotent being who rules over an island and controls everything. The primitive islanders, known as Pygmies, are subject to the player's god powers. These range from benevolent powers, such as giving the islanders a fishing rod, to destructive, such as summoning a hurricane, or simply entertaining, such as levitating the Pygmies. Built-in features of iOS, the iPad, and iPod Touch are used, such as the accelerometer to simulate gravity and earthquakes. Most of these features can be toggled on the game's menu bar. The "March of the Fire Ants" update also added a new feature known as OpenFeint, where players can access chat rooms, leaderboards, achievements, and announcements during gameplay. 

Pocket League Story	Kairosoft was founded as a djin games developer in 1996, and is currently located in the Nishi-Shinjuku district of Tokyo with only nine employees. They started out developing simulation games for the Windows platform, the first of which was released in 1996 and simulated a used bookstore, and another example was the original Game Dev Story released in 1997, with a sequel released in 2001. In 2001, Kairosoft switched to developing mobile simulation games for the Japanese cell phone market, which was much more developed than America's. The company was incorporated in September 2007, and launched a new website on November 4, 2008.

Pocky & Rocky Reshrined	The Pocky & Rocky games are scrolling shooter games. They star Pocky, a young Shinto shrine maiden, and her tanuki companion Rocky as they fight a variety of monsters. The games pull heavily from Japanese mythology, featuring many Japanese legendary creatures. Pocky is typically equipped with ofuda and gohei, which she uses to battle enemies and progress through the environments.

Pode	The game was nominated for "Original Score" at the 9th Hollywood Music in Media Awards, and for "Best Original Soundtrack Album" at the 2019 G.A.N.G. Awards.

Poi	Poi is an independent 3D platform game released on Linux, macOS and Microsoft Windows via Steam, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. Poi was the first game developed by PolyKid, an independent studio made up of graduates from the DigiPen Institute of Technology. Following an unsuccessful Kickstarter campaign in August 2015, the game was released via Steam Early Access the following November and remained in active development until a finished version was released in February 2017, followed by home console ports later that year.

Poison Control	"Belles' Hells" are spiritual realms created by the powerful emotions, or "Delusions", of various girls. However, the Delusions manifest as physical beings, or Klesha, who try to stop the protagonist and steal their body. One such Klesha is Poisonette, who steals the protagonist's body at the start of the game, but makes them work with her to purify the other Klesha and save the girls they belong to.

Police Stories	Police Stories is a top-down shooter video game developed by Mighty Morgan and published by HypeTrain Digital. The project was financed through the crowd funding platform Kickstarter in June 2017.

Polybius	Polybius is a 2017 shoot 'em up video game developed and published by Llamasoft. It was released in May 2017 for the PlayStation 4, with PlayStation VR support available. A version for Windows was released in December 2018. The game takes its name and inspiration from the fictitious 1981 arcade game Polybius. It is also inspired by games like TxK and aims to induce the psychological state of flow. It was positively received by critics.

Pool Slide Story	Kairosoft was founded as a djin games developer in 1996, and is currently located in the Nishi-Shinjuku district of Tokyo with only nine employees. They started out developing simulation games for the Windows platform, the first of which was released in 1996 and simulated a used bookstore, and another example was the original Game Dev Story released in 1997, with a sequel released in 2001. In 2001, Kairosoft switched to developing mobile simulation games for the Japanese cell phone market, which was much more developed than America's. The company was incorporated in September 2007, and launched a new website on November 4, 2008.

Portal Knights	Portal Knights was first announced by publisher 505 Games on 4 February 2016. It was released into Steam Early Access on 25 February 2016.

Port Royale 4	Kalypso Media Group is a German video game developer and publisher. Founded in 2006 in Worms, the group includes four companies, in Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States and has studios, Realmforge Studios, Gaming Minds Studios, Claymore Game Studios, and Nine Worlds Studios. Kalypso is best known for publishing Tropico, Sudden Strike, Dungeons and Railway Empire series.

Postal Redux	Postal is a 1997 isometric top-down shooter video game developed by Running with Scissors and published by Ripcord Games. A sequel to the game, Postal 2, was released in 2003. Two additional sequels, Postal III and Postal 4: No Regerts, were released in 2011 and 2022, respectively. Director Uwe Boll bought the movie rights for the series and produced a film of the same name. A March 2001 re-release of the game, called Postal Plus, included a "Special Delivery" add-on. A remake of the game, Postal Redux, was released for Microsoft Windows on May 20, 2016, and was later released for the PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch digital stores. At the end of 2016, the game's source code was released under the GNU GPL-2.0-only. At the end of 2019, Running With Scissors released the game as freeware.

Potion Permit	Gameplay consists primarily of action role-playing elements, with minigames used to represent certain complex actions such as creating a potion. Additional gameplay elements come from the foraging system, as well as socialization with non-player characters (NPCs).

Power Rangers: Battle for the Grid	Power Rangers: Battle for the Grid is a fighting game in which players compete in battle using characters with different fighting styles and special attacks. Players select teams of three characters to engage in one-on-one combat, and can choose to switch between them at any point during the match, as well as call teammates to perform assists. Players can also call on Megazords to assist with the battle, via a meter that fills as their team members take damage. When all three opposing teammates have been eliminated, a victory is declared.

Praetorians - HD Remaster	Unlike most real-time strategy titles, Praetorians focuses on military strategy and tactics rather than building or resource management. Units are trained from a garrison, which is built on a town or village which requires a garrison to be built and a commander to be sent there to oversee recruitment.

Praey for the Gods	The player character starts her journey stranded on a frozen island, with only the clothes on her back. She must scavenge for resources (weapons, food, etc.) to survive the frozen landscape, dynamically generated weather and other hostilities. After some exploration, players must track down behemoths known as "gods", finding ways to scale their massive bodies and strike the chimes located at critical points. Each one is unique and must be studied to understand how to defeat it. Some hints on how to do so are provided in the form of cave drawings.

Predator: Hunting Grounds	Predator: Hunting Grounds was the first Predator video game in a decade, following the Predators-themed mobile games from Angry Mob and Gameloft released in 2010, and the first full title for consoles since 2005's Predator: Concrete Jungle (although several other games featuring the Yautja were released in the interim).

Prey	Prey is a 2017 first-person shooter video game developed by Arkane Austin and published by Bethesda Softworks. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on May 5, 2017.

Primal Carnage: Extinction	The sequel began as a complete rebuild of the original game and was to be released as a free update. However, Circle 5 Studios took over development from Lukewarm Media, and announced that the update would instead be released as a separate game known as Primal Carnage: Extinction, co-developed by Pub Games. It was released for Windows on April 3, 2015. The PlayStation 4 version, developed by Panic Button, was released on October 20, 2015.

Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time Remake	Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is an action-adventure video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. The game was released on the Game Boy Advance, PlayStation 2, GameCube, Xbox and Windows in November 2003. The Sands of Time is a reboot of the Prince of Persia series created by Jordan Mechner. Mechner served as creative consultant, designer, and scenario writer for The Sands of Time.

Princess Crown	Princess Crown is an action role-playing game developed and published by Atlus in collaboration with Sega that was released only in Japan. Originally released in 1997 for the Sega Saturn, it was ported to the PlayStation Portable in 2005. Using a two-dimensional side-scrolling perspective, gameplay focuses on a beat 'em up-style fighting system, incorporating role-playing elements. Set in the fantasy kingdom of Valendia, the player controls queen Gradriel De Valendia, as her wish to aid the people in person leads into a quest to prevent the resurrection of the demon lord Lalva. Additional character scenarios are unlocked by completing Gradriel's quest, with completion of all story routes leading to the true ending.

Prison Architect	Prison Architect is a private prison construction and management simulation video game developed and published by Introversion Software. It was made available as a crowdfunded paid alpha pre-order on September 25, 2012 with updates that were scheduled every three to four weeks until 2023. With over 2,000,000 copies sold, Prison Architect made over US$10.7million in pre-order sales for the alpha version. Prison Architect was an entrant in the 2012 Independent Games Festival. The game was available on Steam's Early Access program, and was officially released on October 6, 2015.

Pro Evolution Soccer 2015	The game's first downloadable content pack was released on 9 November 2014, ahead of the official launch of PES 2015 on 13 November. The pack adds an extra eight European teams (Slovan Bratislava, FK Partizan, Maccabi Tel Aviv, Ludogorets Razgrad, HJK Helsinki, Qaraba, Legia Warsaw, Sparta Prague), the Copa Sudamericana 2014 tournament, summer transfers, new player faces, latest squad lineups, and a series of latest boots from Adidas, Nike and Puma.

Pro Evolution Soccer 2016	At E3 2015, it was announced that Konami had extended their license for the UEFA Champions League, the UEFA Europa League and the UEFA Super Cup until 2018. At Gamescom 2015, it was announced that Konami had acquired the exclusive license for the upcoming UEFA Euro 2016; however, it was not going to be a part of the game from the beginning, and was eventually released in an update on 24 March 2016. Pro Evolution Soccer 2016 includes Ligue 1, La Liga, AFC Champions League, UEFA Champions League, UEFA Europa League, UEFA Super Cup, Copa Libertadores, Copa Sudamericana (2014 and 2015 seasons), Recopa Sudamericana, an unlicensed Serie A with 19 licensed teams, an unlicensed Premier League, with only Manchester United licensed, 3 teams from Bundesliga (Bayern Munich, Wolfsburg and Borussia Mnchengladbach) but still not a stand-in for the league, an unlicensed Football League Championship, an unlicensed Serie B, an unlicensed Portuguese League (only Benfica, Sporting CP and Porto were licensed), Ligue 2, Liga Adelante, an unlicensed Brazilian League, an unlicensed Chilean League (with only the teams competing in Copa Libertadores and Copa Sudamericana licensed), Eredivisie, an unlicensed Argentine League (with only the teams competing in Copa Libertadores and Copa Sudamericana licensed) and 4 teams from Brazilian Second Division (Vitria, Bahia, Botafogo and Cricima).

Pro Evolution Soccer 2017	Konami partnered with FC Barcelona, Liverpool F.C., Borussia Dortmund and Club Atltico River Plate which will include recreation of the official kits, player faces, club logos and stadia among other exclusive content. Features include improved passing, Real Touch ball control, and improved goal tending technique. It includes fully licensed Arsenal, Atletico Madrid and Barcelona teams. The cover of the game features Barcelona players Neymar, Lionel Messi, Luis Surez, Ivan Rakiti and Gerard Piqu, as well as the team's home stadium Camp Nou beneath the UEFA Champions League starball design with an Adidas Finale football on the pitch.

Pro Evolution Soccer 2018	Pro Evolution Soccer 2018 (abbreviated as PES 2018) is a sports video game developed and published by Konami for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Android and iOS. The game is the 17th installment in the Pro Evolution Soccer series and was released worldwide in September 2017. This was the final PES game released for PlayStation 3 & Xbox 360 consoles and the last to feature UEFA Champions League, UEFA Europa League, and UEFA Super Cup licenses and the Borussia Dortmund partnership.

Pro Evolution Soccer 2019	Pro Evolution Soccer 2019 (Abbreviated as PES 2019) is a football simulation video game developed by PES Productions and published by Konami for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. It is the 18th installment in the PES series and was released on 28 August 2018 in North America and on 30 August 2018 in Japan, Europe, and Australia. During that time, Philippe Coutinho, as a winger for FC Barcelona, appeared on the cover of the standard edition, while David Beckham appeared on the front cover of the legend edition. Scottish clubs Celtic and Rangers have been brought to the game along with their stadiums, such as the Old Firm derby. This was the final installment in the franchise to be branded as just PES, following the decision to rebrand it eFootball Pro Evolution Soccer, starting with the 2019 edition, EFootball PES 2020, and then just simply as eFootball.

Pro Yaky Spirits 2019	Professional Yakyuu Spirits 2004 (2004, Pro Yaky Spirits 2004) is a baseball simulation video game developed by Konami for the PlayStation 2 that was released on March 25, 2004.

The Procession to Calvary	The game is named for the painting The Procession to Calvary by Pieter Bruegel the Elder. Like its predecessor, the game's visuals are composed of elements from classic European paintings, mainly from the Middle Ages and Renaissance. The protagonist's appearance is that of the goddess Bellona painted by Rembrandt.

Project Awakening	Project Awakening is an upcoming action role-playing game in a fantasy setting being developed by Cygames, and initially announced for the PlayStation 4 in September 2018.

Project Cars	The first video game of the series was initially released on 6 May 2015. It was available on Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. A complete edition, titled Project CARS Game of the Year Edition, was launched on 6 May 2016. The game was generally well received upon release, and had sold 2 million copies as of October 2016.

Project Cars 2	Project CARS 2 offers 140 track layouts at 60 different locations and 189 cars to choose from. It advertises that "each track is a living, organic venue" and "changes lap by lap" as the race progresses. This is achieved by a system called LiveTrack 3.0, including e.g. track temperature or dynamic weather. 

Project Cars 3	Project CARS 3 introduces more customizable cars that are available to race over 140 global circuits. The game also features 24-hour cycles, various seasons, and weather effects. The career mode has been rebuilt, with the artificial intelligence being enhanced. The game also support VR on PC. According to CEO of Slightly Mad Studios Ian Bell, the game is a spiritual successor to the Need for Speed: Shift series, which was also developed by Slightly Mad Studios. Having been acquired by British video game developer and publisher Codemasters, which is known for the Formula One series, Colin McRae Rally series and the Dirt series, in November 2019, Project CARS 3 is expected to share some elements from Codemasters' similar genre video game series TOCA, or Grid. The game received its first game trailer on 3 June 2020. The game also features a refined multiplayer mode.

Project Highrise: Architect's Edition	The game was released worldwide on September 8, 2016, through online digital distribution platforms, primarily Steam and GOG.com, and has received generally positive reviews. The game has spawned five DLC packs, which provided additional gameplay features and content.

Project Phoenix	Yura is the founder of the Eminence Symphony Orchestra and the Eminence Audio Production company, and a violin virtuoso. He has extensive solo experience ranging from recitals to solo concerto performances. He has played for heads of state, international delegates and officials such as Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, and ambassadors and consulate generals to many nations.

Project Sakura Wars	Sakura Wars, known in Japan as New Sakura Wars, is a cross-genre video game developed and published by Sega for the PlayStation 4. The sixth mainline entry and a soft reboot of the Sakura Wars series, the game was released in 2019 in Asia and 2020 worldwide. It is the first Sakura Wars game not to be developed by Red Entertainment. The gameplay combines overlapping action role-playing, dating sim and visual novel elements. The base campaign was later expanded with downloadable content (DLC), adding further gameplay options such as additional costumes.

Project Warlock	Project Warlock takes inspiration from classic 1990s shooters such as Blood, Doom and Heretic.  The player explores a progression of non-linear levels while battling varied enemies and bosses.  In order to survive to the exit, the player must seek out keys, power-ups, loot, weapons, and ammo; some of which are hidden in secret areas.  Each level consists of one to four short stages.  Levels are grouped into episodes, with the levels in each episode sharing a common theme.

Projection: First Light	
The player controls two objects: the protagonist, a little shadow puppet girl named Greta, and a physical ball of light. Using the ball of light, the player can manipulate shadows which become solid and allow Greta to walk on. The length and angle of the shadows depends on the positioning of the ball of light. The game doesn't use any dialogue to explain the story, instead using characters' actions and visual cues. The player explores four different time periods, Indonesia, China, Turkey, Greece, and 19th century England, each with its own unique style. Every character is a shadow puppet, as is the rest of the environment. The characters and foreground are black while the background is in sepia, replicating the style of tradition shadow play canvas. 
Prototype	Prototype (stylized as ) is a 2009 action-adventure video game developed by Radical Entertainment and published by Activision. It was released in June 2009 for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Microsoft Windows. In July 2015, the game was re-released alongside its sequel as the Prototype Biohazard Bundle for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. Separate versions of the two games became available in August 2015. In Prototype, players control an amnesiac shapeshifter named Alex Mercer as he attempts to stop an outbreak of a virus called Blacklight in Manhattan, which mutates individuals into powerful, violent monsters. Alex also attempts to uncover his mysterious past while coming into conflict with both the US military and a black operations force called Blackwatch. Outside of the main story, players can freely explore the game's open world and engage in several different side activities.

Prototype 2	Prototype 2 (stylized as ) is a 2012 action-adventure video game developed by Radical Entertainment and published by Activision, and the sequel to 2009's Prototype. First announced at the 2010 Spike VGA Awards, it was released in April 2012 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, and in July 2012 for Microsoft Windows. In July 2015, the game was re-released alongside its predecessor as the Prototype Biohazard Bundle for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. Separate versions of the two games became available in August 2015. Prototype 2 shifts the focus towards a new protagonist, former U.S. Marine Sergeant James Heller, who seeks revenge on Alex Mercer, the protagonist of the original Prototype, after the death of his family during a new outbreak of the Blacklight virus in Manhattan, which was started by Mercer. Heller is infected with a strain of the virus that allows him to keep his humanity while granting him powers similar to Mercer's, including shapeshifting and consuming people, which he uses in his mission to stop Mercer and the Blacklight outbreak.

Psikyo Shooting Collection	Psikyo was acquired by X-Nauts in 2002. In 2003, it was reported that Psikyo was shutting down. Shortly afterwards, X-Nauts stated this news was wrong. Games would continue to be released under the Psikyo label, but would be outsourced to other teams. In 2007, Psikyo programming veteran Keiyuki Haragami started a company called Zerodiv to handle distribution of Psikyo's catalog. In March 2019, Zerodiv was acquired by City Connection.

Psycho-Pass: Mandatory Happiness	The story's backdrop is a dystopian future Tokyo where people can be preemptively imprisoned for their propensity to commit crimes, based on a technology-enabled personality scan called a Psycho-Pass. The game takes place in a timeline within the anime's first 12 episodes. The player controls one of two characters: inspector Nadeshiko Kugatachi, who is missing memories of her past, or enforcer Takuma Tsurugi, whose lover is missing. The antagonist is a rogue artificial intelligence named Alpha, whose objective of bringing happiness to individuals through unsanctioned means brings him into conflict with the government. Alpha attempts to provide happiness through chemical control, mass manipulation, and eventually by reducing the human population. The three characters do not appear in the anime series; the story runs parallel to the TV show's.

Psychonauts 2	Psychonauts 2 is a platform game developed by Double Fine and published by Xbox Game Studios. The game was announced at The Game Awards 2015 ceremony, and released on August 25, 2021 for PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S, and on May 24, 2022 for Linux and macOS.

Psyvariar Delta	Player's fighter has a hit box of 1x1 pixel at the centre of fighter.

Puddle	In the game, the player must guide a puddle of fluid to its target destination by tilting the scene, not by moving the fluid itself, similar to Nintendo's WiiWare game Fluidity. They must work with physics: friction, momentum, and the unique properties of each type of fluid and environment to send as much of each puddle past such obstacles as fires, rifts, spills and others, through environments like pipes, plants, laboratories, a human body, a sewer, a rocket, a foundry and a power station. The experience is physics based, making the fluid motion realistic. The game allows the players to be a liquid like Nitroglycerin, and they need to guide it to a certain point. Nitroglycerin tends to explode, so the players must learn to carefully guide it. The game has 49 levels, 2 difficulties (extreme and normal), leaderboards and medals.

Pumped BMX +	Pumped BMX + is a 2015 arcade racing video game developed by Yeah Us! and published by Curve Digital. The game was free for PlayStation Plus subscribers in November 2016. The game was released on September 18, 2015 for Xbox One, PC, and Wii U, on September 22, 2015 for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, and PlayStation Vita.

Pumpkin Jack	Players control a spirit revived as a pumpkin-headed man on Halloween. Together with his two companions, an owl and a crow, players guide Pumpkin Jack through various puzzles and 3D platforms to defeat humanity. Jack can engage in melee combat using various weapons, including a shovel, scythe, and magic sword.

Punch Club	Punch Club (originally titled VHS Story) is a sporting management simulation developed by Lazy Bear Games and published by tinyBuild. In the game, the player manages an upcoming boxer in training and preparation for a series of boxing matches at a local club, while searching for clues of who killed their father. The game was developed as a humorous take on action films of the 1980s and 1990s. The game was released in January 2016 for Microsoft Windows,  OS X, iOS, and Android, following a Twitch Plays Pokmon-style event on Twitch. A Nintendo 3DS port of the game was announced in a September 2016 Nintendo Direct for release in January 2017 after some delays. Ports for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One were released on March 31, 2017. A Nintendo Switch version was released on May 24, 2018. A sequel, titled Punch Club 2: Fast Forward, was released on July 20, 2023.

Punch Line	Punch Line (Japanese: , Hepburn: Panchi Rain) is a Japanese anime television series directed by Yutaka Uemura and produced by MAPPA with scripts by Kotaro Uchikoshi, music by Tetsuya Komuro, and character designs by Shta Iwasaki. The series aired on Fuji TV's Noitamina block between April 9, 2015, and June 25, 2015, and was simulcast by Crunchyroll. The series is licensed in North America by Sentai Filmworks.

Pure Chess	Pure Chess was released for the PlayStation Vita and the PlayStation 3. The PS3 version of the game is only available through digital download via the PlayStation Store. The PS3 version of Pure Chess was released on April 11, 2012, in Europe and on May 29, 2012, in North America. A PlayStation 4 version was later released on April 15, 2014 in North America and April 16, 2014 in Europe. A physical edition of this version was also published as a budget title by System 3 under their Play It label.

Pure Pool	Pure Pool is a pool video game by British developer VooFoo Studios in association with Ripstone Games for the PlayStation 4 and PC platforms. It was released on the PlayStation Store in North America on 29 July 2014 and Europe on 30 July 2014, with a physical edition of the PS4 version also being published by System 3 under their Play It label. The Microsoft Windows version was released worldwide via Steam on 30 July 2014. An Xbox One version was later released via the ID@Xbox self-publishing initiative on 14 November 2014. The game was released for the Nintendo Switch on November 17, 2020.

Push Me Pull You	Push Me Pull You is a 2016 video game by House House. It was released on PlayStation 4, Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux platforms.

Putty Squad	A remake was released in November 2013 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Nintendo 3DS, Xbox Live Arcade, and Microsoft Windows. In November 2017, Super Putty Squad was released for Nintendo Switch.

Puyo Puyo Champions	Released in Japan under the name Puyo Puyo eSports, the game was localized for international release in 2019 under the name Puyo Puyo Champions. As with Puyo Puyo Tetris, the international release features English characters voices, allowing the player to change between the original Japanese and the English localized voices; the game interface is also available in French, German, Italian, Spanish, Traditional Chinese, Simplified Chinese and Korean.

Puyo Puyo Tetris	Puyo Puyo Tetris was the first Tetris-related title published by Sega since the PlayStation 2 game Sega Ages 2500: Tetris Collection, an installment in the Sega Ages series, in 2006. Puyo Puyo Tetris adopts the guidelines used in contemporary Tetris games, so the rotation patterns and colors of the Tetrominoes differ from Sega's previous releases.

Puyo Puyo Tetris 2	Like the previous game, Puyo Puyo Tetris 2 revolves around the two different gameplay styles of the Puyo Puyo and Tetris series respectively. Players can choose between Puyo style, which involves arranging colored blobs (puyos) and matching them together to set off combo chains, and Tetris style, which involves placing shaped blocks (tetriminos) to create lines and removing them from the grid. Players compete against each other with the style of their choosing, with the aim of sending garbage to their opponents, causing their play field to overflow and eliminating them. The game features all the modes featured in the original Puyo Puyo Tetris, including the Swap and Fusion modes which feature both styles.

Puzzle by Nikoli 4:	The name "Nikoli" comes from the racehorse who won the Irish 2,000 Guineas in 1980; the founder of Nikoli, Maki Kaji, was fond of horseracing and betting.

Akari	Light Up is played on a rectangular grid of white and black cells.  The player places light bulbs in white cells such that no two bulbs shine on each other, until the entire grid is lit up.  A bulb sends rays of light horizontally and vertically, illuminating its entire row and column unless its light is blocked by a black cell.  A black cell may have a number on it from 0 to 4, indicating how many bulbs must be placed adjacent to its four sides; for example, a cell with a 4 must have four bulbs around it, one on each side, and a cell with a 0 cannot have a bulb next to any of its sides.  An unnumbered black cell may have any number of light bulbs adjacent to it, or none.  Bulbs placed diagonally adjacent to a numbered cell do not contribute to the bulb count.

Hashiwokakero	Hashiwokakero is played on a rectangular grid with no standard size, although the grid itself is not usually drawn.  Some cells start out with (usually encircled) numbers from 1 to 8 inclusive; these are the "islands".  The rest of the cells are empty.  

Heyawake	Heyawake is played on a rectangular grid of cells with no standard size; the grid is divided into variously sized rectangular "rooms" by bold lines following the edges of the cells. Some rooms may contain a single number, typically printed in their upper-left cell; as originally designed, every room was numbered, but this is rarely necessary for solving and is no longer followed.

Kakuro	The canonical Kakuro puzzle is played in a grid of filled and barred cells, "black" and "white" respectively.  Puzzles are usually 1616 in size, although these dimensions can vary widely.  Apart from the top row and leftmost column which are entirely black, the grid is divided into "entries"lines of white cellsby the black cells.  The black cells contain a diagonal slash from upper-left to lower-right and a number in one or both halves, such that each horizontal entry has a number in the half-cell to its immediate left and each vertical entry has a number in the half-cell immediately above it.  These numbers, borrowing crossword terminology, are commonly called "clues".

Masyu	Masyu is played on a rectangular grid of squares, some of which contain circles; each circle is either "white" (empty) or "black" (filled).  The goal is to draw a single continuous non-intersecting loop that properly passes through all circled cells.  The loop must "enter" each cell it passes through from the center of one of its four sides and "exit" from a different side; all turns are therefore 90 degrees.

Nurikabe	The puzzle is played on a typically rectangular grid of cells, some of which contain numbers. Cells are initially of unknown color, but can only be black or white. Two same-color cells are considered "connected" if they are adjacent vertically or horizontally, but not diagonally. Connected white cells form "islands", while connected black cells form the "sea".

Slitherlink	Slitherlink is played on a rectangular lattice of dots. Some of the squares formed by the dots have numbers inside them. The objective is to connect horizontally and vertically adjacent dots so that the lines form a simple loop with no loose ends. In addition, the number inside a square represents how many of its four sides are segments in the loop.

Pyre	The game takes place in a high-fantasy setting. The story is told through on-screen narrative passages that include a hyperlink-type system used by the player character to explore the story further. In addition to guiding the exiles during "Rites" which resemble a sports game, the Reader must determine how to help support or improve the party by performing activities such as scavenging for supplies, learning more of the world's lore, or mentoring the exiles to improve their abilities.

Q*bert Rebooted	The game was conceived by Warren Davis and Jeff Lee. Lee designed the title character and original concept, which was further developed and implemented by Davis. Q*bert was developed under the project name Cubes.

Q.U.B.E. Director's Cut	In the game, the player guides their avatar through a series of levels to make their way to an exit. The player character is equipped with special gloves that can perform a number of functions on specific blocks to reach the exit. The game employs a sterile monochromatic environment that highlights the coloured blocks that the player can interact with, and has been compared to the Portal series.

Q.U.B.E. 2	In the game, the player guides their avatar through a series of levels to make their way to an exit. The player character is equipped with special gloves that can perform a number of functions on specific blocks to reach the exit. The game employs a sterile monochromatic environment that highlights the coloured blocks that the player can interact with, and has been compared to the Portal series.

Quest of Dungeons	The player can assume the role of one of four different character class types, the Warrior, Wizard, Assassin or Shaman. The player enters a Mansion on the top floor and gradually progress down the increasing difficulty floors by leveling up.
The entire game is randomly generated, so monsters, traps, loot are never on the same place. The game world is placed in a tile-based square grid that is viewed from a top-down perspective, where the player, enemies, items and objects occupy discrete squares. The game is turn-based, and both the player and numerous enemies take turns performing actions. The game has a very fast approach to the turn-based mechanic, and while the player does have to wait for the enemies to take turn, everything is done very quickly to keep the action fluid. Each turn the player may move or attack monsters in adjacent squares, pick, drop, and use items, and interact with various in-game objects. Permanent death is a major part of the game, in which if the player dies by losing all HP it will restart from the beginning of the game, thus creating a different dungeon, there are no options inside the game to change this, so while the player can save and continue later at any moment, if he dies he can't continue.

Quiplash	Jackbox Games, Inc. (formerly Jellyvision Games, Inc.) is an American video game developer based in Chicago, Illinois, best known for the You Don't Know Jack series of quiz-based party video games and The Jackbox Party Pack series. Founded by Harry Gottlieb, the company operated as Jellyvision Games from 1995 until its closure in 2001. After seven years of dormancy, Jellyvision Games was revived in 2008, and the company rebranded as Jackbox Games in 2013.

Quiplash 2	Jackbox Games, Inc. (formerly Jellyvision Games, Inc.) is an American video game developer based in Chicago, Illinois, best known for the You Don't Know Jack series of quiz-based party video games and The Jackbox Party Pack series. Founded by Harry Gottlieb, the company operated as Jellyvision Games from 1995 until its closure in 2001. After seven years of dormancy, Jellyvision Games was revived in 2008, and the company rebranded as Jackbox Games in 2013.

R-Type Dimensions EX	R-Type is a science-fiction horizontal-scrolling shooter video game franchise developed and published by Irem for arcade systems and home game platforms. The first entry in the series was released in 1987, R-Type, followed by several sequels for other platforms. Ten games in total have been released in the series. Other pieces of media, such as plastic-resin model kits, soundtrack albums and literature, were also produced. The series centers on an intergalactic war between humans and the Bydo, a powerful extraterrestrial race that are made from both biological lifeforms and mechanical structures. Most games have the player controlling the R-9 "Arrowhead" star vessel, although other entries have slightly altered versions of the ship instead.

R-Type Final 2	The western versions of the game are published by NIS America. R-Type Final 2 is the first game in the series to be released outside of Japan since R-Type Dimensions in 2009. It was released on April 30, 2021, and Final 3 Evolved was released in late April 2023. 

Rabbids Invasion	Rabbids Invasion (French: Les Lapins Crtins: Invasion) is a French computer-animated television series based on Ubisoft's Rabbids video game series. It is a co-production of Ubisoft Motion Pictures, TeamTO and France Tlvisions (only for the first four seasons). The show was developed by Jean-Louis Momus, and stars Damien Laquet as the voice of the Rabbids.

Race the Sun	Race the Sun is an endless running video game developed and published by American indie studio Flippfly and released on August 19, 2013 for Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux platforms. In Race the Sun, the player controls a solar-powered spaceship, dodging various objects on the way such as laser beams, other ships and other stationary obstacles, while gathering pick ups that can be used in game, all while the sun slowly sets on the horizon. The game ends either when the player hits an object and the ship gets destroyed, or when the sun sets.

Rad	Rad is a roguelike video game played from an isometric perspective. In the game, players control a teenager whose goal is to explore a procedurally-generated wasteland for effigies known as respirators, items that may restore the human civilizations after a devastating apocalypse. As the character explores the wasteland, their genes will mutate, granting players additional powers and perks. For each character, players can have unlimited passive bonuses and at most three active mutations. If the player character dies, they will be replaced by a new character.

Rad Rodgers	Slipgate Ironworks ApS (formerly Interceptor Entertainment ApS and Slipgate Studios ApS) is a Danish video game developer based in Aalborg, founded in 2010 by Frederik Schreiber.

Radial-G: Racing Revolved	Radial-G: Racing Revolved is an indie racing game, which was developed by Tammeka Games and was released on March 28, 2016, for the Oculus Rift. HTC Vive and Razer OSVR support via the Steam version was released April 5, 2016 and is going to be released on Sony PlayStation VR on September 12, 2017 for EU regions with U.S. dates to be announced.

Rage 2	Rage 2 is a 2019 first-person shooter video game developed by Avalanche Studios in conjunction with id Software and published by Bethesda Softworks. The game is the sequel to the 2011 game Rage. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on May 14, 2019. It received mixed reviews from critics, with praise for its combat but criticism for its story, characters, and open world gameplay.

Rage of the Dragons	Rage of the Dragons features a tag team system, in which the player takes control of two characters and can switch between one or the other during gameplay. The character who is not being controlled will slowly recover part of his or her energy while the other is fighting. The player can perform special combos in which both characters attack an opponent at the same time for added damage.

Raging Loop	Raging Loop is an interactive visual novel with a branching plotline, in which the player's choices affect the direction of the story. Certain choices reward the player with keys, which can be used to unlock additional choices and explore more of the story. A Scenario Chart allows the player to return to any given scene or choice. There are four main endings, as well as many bad endings, some of which are optional. While the player has some freedom to explore different paths, the main endings must be played in a linear order due to the locked choices.

Raiden V: Director's Cut	Gameplay in Raiden V is a mixture combination of the prior installments including Raiden Fighters sub-series/spinoffs, but the plot incorporates real-life locations, with the player craft fighting enemies in New York, the Middle East, France, England, Belgium, and Sweden.

Raiders of the Broken Planet	Spacelords is an asymmetric online adventure game. There are gameplay elements which task the players to shoot and brawl and utilize strategy. A story mode, which will be released episodically, is also planned.

Raid: World War II	During World War II, the Nazis are on the verge of winning the war in Europe. Four prisoners of war  Sterling, Rivet, Kurgan and Wolfgang have been freed by "Mrs. White", a British Intelligence Operative, who needs someone to take down Hitler and Nazi Germany. Their objective is to fight the war without rules or mercy. Their reward is all the Nazi gold they can carry.

Railway Empire	Railway Empire is a railroad construction and management simulation game developed by Gaming Minds Studio and published by Kalypso Media. It was released on 26 January 2018 for Linux and Microsoft Windows, 30 January 2018 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and 14 February 2020 for Nintendo Switch. In Japan, the physical copy of the game was distributed by Ubisoft in May 2018. A sequel, Railway Empire 2, was released in 2023.

Rainbow Billy: The Curse of the Leviathan	Rainbow Billy, a non-binary eight-year-old, lives in the Land of Imagination, a colorful world filled with happy emotions. The Leviathan, angry at Billy's refusal to grow up, steals all the colors of the land. Billy escapes on the boat Friend-Ship with a fishing rod called Rodrigo and travels through the Land of Imagination, helping to recolor animal allies. They seek out the three orbs necessary to defeat the Leviathan and fully recolor the Land of Imagination. After gaining all three orbs, they face the Leviathan with the help of their animal friends, recoloring the Leviathan who apologises for his actions. In the real world, Billy goes to lay some flowers at their mother's grave, alongside their father who has the Leviathan tattooed on his arm.

Rainbow Moon	A successor titled Rainbow Skies, was released in June 2018 for PS4, PS3 and PS Vita.

Rain World	Rain World is a 2017 survival platform game developed by Videocult and published by Adult Swim Games and Akupara Games for PlayStation 4, Microsoft Windows, and MacOS in March 2017, and for Nintendo Switch in late 2018. Players assume control of a "slugcat", an elongated felid-like rodent, and are tasked with survival in a derelict and hostile world.

Raji: An Ancient Epic	Raji: An Ancient Epic is an action-adventure video game developed by Nodding Heads Games based in Pune, Maharashtra, India. It was first released as a timed exclusive for Nintendo Switch on 18 August 2020, and released on 15 October 2020 for Microsoft Windows via the Steam client and the Epic Games Store, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One.

Ratchet & Clank	In contrast to the film, Ratchet & Clank received positive reviews upon release, with critics particularly praising the overall gameplay, controls, visuals, weapons, and world design. The game was followed by Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart, a direct sequel to Into the Nexus, which was released for the PlayStation 5 in June 2021.

The Raven Remastered	The gameplay incorporates elements of stealth and detective work. It includes some cross-genre gameplay standards such as lockpicking doors and gathering key items. It also includes a point system, which serves as a ranking system and can be used to unlock new areas of the map. One of its main gameplay elements is puzzle solving.

Rayman Legends	Rayman Legends was announced at Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) 2012 for Wii U and was planned for release during the console's launch window. However, the game was delayed to February 2013 in order to put the finishing touches to the game, and due to the financial failure of ZombiU, the release was delayed again by six months and the game was made multi-platform.

R.B.I. Baseball 14	Namco developed and released Pro Yaky: Family Stadium (Pro Baseball: Family Stadium) for the Family Computer (Famicom), the first game in their Family Stadium series, on December 10, 1986. Pro Baseball: Family Stadium was created by Namco programmer Yoshihiro Kishimoto, who had previously worked on games such as Baraduke (1985).

R.B.I. Baseball 15	Namco developed and released Pro Yaky: Family Stadium (Pro Baseball: Family Stadium) for the Family Computer (Famicom), the first game in their Family Stadium series, on December 10, 1986. Pro Baseball: Family Stadium was created by Namco programmer Yoshihiro Kishimoto, who had previously worked on games such as Baraduke (1985).

R.B.I. Baseball 16	Namco developed and released Pro Yaky: Family Stadium (Pro Baseball: Family Stadium) for the Family Computer (Famicom), the first game in their Family Stadium series, on December 10, 1986. Pro Baseball: Family Stadium was created by Namco programmer Yoshihiro Kishimoto, who had previously worked on games such as Baraduke (1985).

R.B.I. Baseball 17	Namco developed and released Pro Yaky: Family Stadium (Pro Baseball: Family Stadium) for the Family Computer (Famicom), the first game in their Family Stadium series, on December 10, 1986. Pro Baseball: Family Stadium was created by Namco programmer Yoshihiro Kishimoto, who had previously worked on games such as Baraduke (1985).

R.B.I. Baseball 18	Namco developed and released Pro Yaky: Family Stadium (Pro Baseball: Family Stadium) for the Family Computer (Famicom), the first game in their Family Stadium series, on December 10, 1986. Pro Baseball: Family Stadium was created by Namco programmer Yoshihiro Kishimoto, who had previously worked on games such as Baraduke (1985).

R.B.I. Baseball 19	Namco developed and released Pro Yaky: Family Stadium (Pro Baseball: Family Stadium) for the Family Computer (Famicom), the first game in their Family Stadium series, on December 10, 1986. Pro Baseball: Family Stadium was created by Namco programmer Yoshihiro Kishimoto, who had previously worked on games such as Baraduke (1985).

R.B.I. Baseball 20	Namco developed and released Pro Yaky: Family Stadium (Pro Baseball: Family Stadium) for the Family Computer (Famicom), the first game in their Family Stadium series, on December 10, 1986. Pro Baseball: Family Stadium was created by Namco programmer Yoshihiro Kishimoto, who had previously worked on games such as Baraduke (1985).

R.B.I. Baseball 21	Namco developed and released Pro Yaky: Family Stadium (Pro Baseball: Family Stadium) for the Family Computer (Famicom), the first game in their Family Stadium series, on December 10, 1986. Pro Baseball: Family Stadium was created by Namco programmer Yoshihiro Kishimoto, who had previously worked on games such as Baraduke (1985).

Read Only Memories: Neurodiver	It was originally released on computer platforms as Read Only Memories in October 2015, and the title was later updated coinciding with its PlayStation 4 release in January 2017.

Realms of Arkania: Blade of Destiny	Realms of Arkania: Blade of Destiny is a classical 3D party role-playing video game that has up to six characters (plus an optional NPC that may be recruited) moving through 3D towns and dungeons. Travels between those 3D levels were simulated by showing a path on a regional 2D map. The game generally uses the same pseudo-3D-engine as Attic's 1991 game Spirit of Adventure, utilizing an increased resolution for the 3D part of the screen. The game also borrowed ideas from Eye of the Beholder (the inventory user interface) and Might and Magic III: Isles of Terra (the main screen user interface layout). The game did not feature NPC/monster sprites in the 3D view (a shortcoming that can be found in the entire Northlands Trilogy) that were already introduced by the first 3D real-time action role-playing video game - Dungeon Master - in 1987. Instead of visualizing fights in the 3D view, the game switched to the isometric perspective for a unique turn-based tactical combat simulation.

Realms of Arkania: Star Trail	The game was re-released in 2014 for Steam with support for Windows.

Rebel Cops	Players control a group of ex-police officers who quit when their rural town, including the police force, was overtaken by a Russian mobster.  As they work to free their town, players engage in turn-based tactical combat against the mobsters and corrupt police.  Players can attempt to arrest criminals, which has a percentage chance of success based on factors such as how intimidating the officer is.  Enemies who surrender this way are taken off the map and provide more experience points.  Upon gaining a level, players can customize the police officers with special abilities, such as increased stealth or accuracy.  Characters can automatically warn each other when they are about to be spotted by suspect.

Rebel Galaxy	A prequel to the game, Rebel Galaxy Outlaw, was released on 13 August 2019 on the Epic Games Store, and later for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and on Steam on 22 September 2020.

Rebel Galaxy Outlaw	It was initially released on the Epic Games Store on August 13, 2019, and was later released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Steam on September 22, 2020.

Record of Lodoss War: Deedlit in Wonder Labyrinth	Record of Lodoss War: Deedlit in Wonder Labyrinth is a 2021 action role-playing video game developed by Team Ladybug and co-published by Playism and Why so serious? (WSS Playground) for Microsoft Windows. Versions for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X and Series S were also released. It is based on Ryo Mizuno's Record of Lodoss War series, taking place before the events of The Crown of the Covenant. Controlling the high elf Deedlit, who finds herself in a strange interconnected labyrinth filled with her past foes and companions, the game focuses on exploration and searching for items and power-ups in the vein of Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, fighting bosses and minibosses. During gameplay, the player also locates two elemental spirits and swaps between each one.

Red Dead Online	Red Dead Online is a 2019 action-adventure game developed and published by Rockstar Games as the online component of Red Dead Redemption 2. After several months in beta, it was released for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in May 2019, and for Windows and Stadia in November 2019. A standalone client for the game was released in December 2020. In Red Dead Online, players control a customizable silent protagonist who is freed from prison after being framed for murder, and tasked with taking revenge in exchange for proving their innocence. Set in 1898, one year before the events of Red Dead Redemption 2, the game comprises story missions where up to four players can complete tasks to advance the narrative, as well as various side missions and events.

Red Dead Redemption	Red Dead Redemption is a 2010 action-adventure game developed by Rockstar San Diego and published by Rockstar Games. A successor to 2004's Red Dead Revolver, it is the second game in the Red Dead series. Red Dead Redemption is set during the decline of the American frontier in the year 1911. It follows John Marston, a former outlaw who, after his wife and son are taken hostage by the government in ransom for his services as a hired gun, sets out to bring three members of his former gang to justice. The narrative explores themes of the cycle of violence, masculinity, redemption, and the American Dream.

Red Dead Redemption 2	Red Dead Redemption 2 is a 2018 action-adventure game developed and published by Rockstar Games. The game is the third entry in the Red Dead series and a prequel to the 2010 game Red Dead Redemption. The story is set in a fictionalized representation of the United States in 1899 and follows the exploits of Arthur Morgan, an outlaw and member of the Van der Linde gang, who must deal with the decline of the Wild West while attempting to survive against government forces, rival gangs, and other adversaries. The game is presented through first- and third-person perspectives, and the player may freely roam in its interactive open world. Gameplay elements include shootouts, robberies, hunting, horseback riding, interacting with non-player characters, and maintaining the character's honor rating through moral choices and deeds. A bounty system governs the response of law enforcement and bounty hunters to crimes committed by the player.

Red Faction: Guerrilla Re-Mars-tered	Red Faction: Guerrilla is a third-person shooter video game developed by Volition and published by THQ. It was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in June 2009 and for Windows in September 2009. The game is the third installment in the Red Faction series. A remastered version titled  Red Faction: Guerrilla Re-Mars-tered with improved graphics was released worldwide on July 3, 2018, for the PlayStation 4, Windows and Xbox One, and on July 2, 2019, for the Nintendo Switch.

Redout	The game was released for Microsoft Windows in September 2016, while the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One released in August 2017. The Windows version is playable in virtual reality. A Nintendo Switch port published by Nicalis was originally slated for a Q2 2017 release, but got delayed and was released in May 2019. The game was released for Amazon Luna on October 20, 2020.

Redeemer: Enhanced Edition	Redeemer is a beat em up shooter game, where the player controls a former elite operative Vasily, who is living in a mountain monastery together with other brothers-monks. One day, an evil corporation discovers Vasily's location and tries to get rid of him using local bandits. Almost all the monks in the monastery are killed as a result, including Vasily's old mentor and best friend. Vasily wants to destroy the evil corporation.

Reel Fishing: Road Trip Adventure	There are several games in the series. The first two games, Reel Fishing (released in 1996) and Reel Fishing II (released in 2000) appeared on the PlayStation. They were followed by Reel Fishing III in 2003 on the PlayStation 2. A special fishing reel controller was released with the first game that was also compatible with the sequels. The first game was successful enough to reach "Greatest Hits" status.

Relayer	Kadokawa Corporation (Japanese: KADOKAWA, Hepburn: Kabushiki-gaisha Kadokawa), formerly Kadokawa Dwango Corporation, is a Japanese media monopoly that was created as a result of the merger of the original Kadokawa Corporation and Dwango Co., Ltd. on October 1, 2014.

Remnant: From the Ashes	Remnant: From the Ashes borrows its mechanics from franchises such as the Dark Souls series, but rather than simply being melee combat, it incorporates a third-person shooter element where the player can wield up to two gun weapons, one main weapon and one side arm, alongside their melee weapon. These weapons can vary between machine guns, shotguns, hunting rifles, sniper rifles and the like, and can also attach mods to them which give players extra abilities, such as teleportation. Players can create their own custom character, and are required to defeat challenging enemies and bosses found throughout a randomly generated world, though the player still follows a set story. Players are able to upgrade their weapons and armor using materials they find throughout the world. They can also unlock trait points, which can be used to increase the stats of their playable character.

Remothered: Broken Porcelain	Remothered: Broken Porcelain is a 2020 survival horror video game developed by Stormind Games and published by Modus Games. It was released on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch and Microsoft Windows.

Remothered: Tormented Fathers	Remothered: Tormented Fathers is a 2018 survival horror video game created and directed by Chris Darril, developed by Stormind Games and published by Darril Arts. The game was originally released digitally on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Microsoft Windows. A Nintendo Switch version was released digitally in 2019, in collaboration with developer Dico Co., Ltd. The game was also released physically in October 2019 by publisher Soedesco.

Rpublique	Players communicate with the main character, Hope, through their phone or computer, in order to help her escape. The player controls surveillance cameras in the fictional totalitarian state or corporate republic of Rpublique in order to monitor Hope's actions, as well as hack into various electronic devices.

Resident Evil 2	Resident Evil 2 is a 2019 survival horror game developed and published by Capcom. A remake of the 1998 game Resident Evil 2, it was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in January 2019 and for Amazon Luna, PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in June 2022, and a Nintendo Switch cloud version released in November 2022. Players control the rookie police officer Leon S. Kennedy and the college student Claire Redfield as they attempt to escape Raccoon City during a zombie outbreak.

Resident Evil 3	Resident Evil 3 is a 2020 survival horror game developed and published by Capcom. It is a remake of the 1999 game Resident Evil 3: Nemesis. Players control former elite agent Jill Valentine and mercenary Carlos Oliveira as they attempt to find a vaccine and escape from a city during a zombie outbreak. The game is played from a third-person perspective and requires the player to solve puzzles and defeat monsters while being pursued by a creature called Nemesis. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in April 2020 and for Amazon Luna, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X/S in June 2022, with a Nintendo Switch cloud version released in November 2022.

Resident Evil 4	Resident Evil 4 is a 2023 survival horror game developed and published by Capcom. A remake of the 2005 game Resident Evil 4, it was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on March 24, 2023. Versions for iOS, and macOS were released on December 20, 2023. 

Resident Evil 5	Resident Evil 5 is a 2009 third-person shooter video game developed and published by Capcom. It is a major installment in the Resident Evil series, and was announced in 2005the same year its predecessor Resident Evil 4 was released. Resident Evil 5 was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles in March 2009 and for Windows in September 2009. It was re-released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in June 2016. The plot involves an investigation of a terrorist threat by Bioterrorism Security Assessment Alliance agents Chris Redfield and Sheva Alomar in Kijuju, a fictional region of West Africa. Chris learns that he must confront his past in the form of an old enemy, Albert Wesker, and his former partner, Jill Valentine.

Resident Evil 6	Resident Evil 6 is a 2012 third-person shooter video game developed and published by Capcom. A major installment in the Resident Evil series, Resident Evil 6 was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in October 2012, and for Windows in March 2013. It was re-released with all downloadable content for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in March 2016, and for the Nintendo Switch in October 2019. Players control Leon S. Kennedy, Chris Redfield, Jake Muller and Ada Wong as they confront the force behind a worldwide bio-terrorist attack. The story is centred around their four interwoven campaigns, and every campaign features a unique style in both tone and gameplay.

Resident Evil 7: Biohazard	suggest me a zombie game?<mct>Resident Evil 7: Biohazard is a 2017 survival horror game developed and published by Capcom. The player controls Ethan Winters as he searches for his long-missing wife in a derelict plantation occupied by an infected family, solving puzzles and fighting enemies. Resident Evil 7 diverges from the more action-oriented Resident Evil 5 and Resident Evil 6, returning to the franchise's survival horror roots, emphasizing exploration. It is the first main Resident Evil game to use a first-person view.

Resident Evil HD Remaster	Resident Evil is a survival horror video game developed and published by Capcom. Released for the GameCube video game console in 2002, it is a remake of the 1996 PlayStation game Resident Evil, the first installment in the Resident Evil video game series. The story takes place in 1998 near the fictional Midwestern town of Raccoon City where a series of bizarre murders have taken place.  The player takes on the role of either Chris Redfield or Jill Valentine, S.T.A.R.S. officers sent in by the city and the R.P.D. to investigate the murders.  

Resident Evil Zero HD Remaster	Resident Evil Zero (or Resident Evil 0) is a survival horror video game developed and published by Capcom for the GameCube in 2002. It is a prequel to Resident Evil (1996), covering the ordeals experienced in the Arklay Mountains by special police force unit, the S.T.A.R.S. Bravo Team. The story takes place in July 1998 and follows officer Rebecca Chambers as well as convict Billy Coen as they explore an abandoned training facility for employees of the pharmaceutical company Umbrella. The gameplay is similar to other Resident Evil games, but adds the ability to switch between characters to solve puzzles and use unique abilities.

Resident Evil: Revelations	Resident Evil: Revelations is a 2012 survival horror video game developed and published by Capcom originally for the Nintendo 3DS handheld game console. Set shortly after the events of Resident Evil 4, the game follows counter-terrorism agents Jill Valentine and Chris Redfield as they try to uncover the truth behind a bioterrorist organization that plans to infect the Earth's oceans with a virus. The game features a single-player mode where the player must complete a series of episodes that involve solving puzzles and defeating enemies, and a multiplayer mode where players may fight their way through altered single-player scenarios.

Resident Evil: Revelations 2	The plot is set between the events of Resident Evil 5 and 6, in 2011. The story begins when Claire and her co-workers, including Barry Burton's daughter Moira Burton, are at a party in the headquarters of the NGO TerraSave, when they are attacked by unknown assailants and taken away to a deserted island in the Baltic Sea.

Resident Evil Village	Resident Evil Village is a 2021 survival horror game developed and published by Capcom. It is the sequel to Resident Evil 7: Biohazard (2017) and the tenth main game of the Resident Evil series. Players control Ethan Winters, who searches for his kidnapped daughter in a village filled with mutant creatures. Village maintains survival horror elements from previous games, with players scavenging environments for items and managing resources while also adds more action-oriented gameplay, with higher enemy counts and a greater emphasis on combat.

Resogun	In the game, the player battles enemies and rescues trapped humans in a cylindrical, voxel-based world. The game was well received by video game journalists, who lauded its graphical prowess, fast-paced gameplay, and soundtrack. The game was criticized for its short length and lack of tutorials or explanations for several gameplay elements. Resogun won several awards, and was nominated for Action Game of the Year at the 17th Annual D.I.C.E. Awards, and also appeared at the 2014 GDC Choice Awards.

Resonance of Fate	Resonance of Fate is a role-playing video game developed by tri-Ace and published by Sega for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. It was released in January 2010 in Japan and March 2010 in Western territories. The game uses a fast-paced strategic combat system revolving around different types of firearms and combination moves between the three playable characters. A remastered version titled Resonance of Fate 4K/HD Edition was released worldwide for PlayStation 4 and Microsoft Windows on October 18, 2018.

Retro City Rampage	An MS-DOS version, Retro City Rampage 486, was released on July 29, 2015, as a limited physical run on a floppy disk as well as a free digital download for owners of modern computer version of the game.

Return of the Obra Dinn	Return of the Obra Dinn is a 2018 adventure and puzzle video game created by Lucas Pope and published by 3909 LLC. It was Pope's second commercial game, following 2013's Papers, Please, and was first released for macOS and Windows before being ported to Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One a year later. Return of the Obra Dinn was praised for its gameplay, art style, and narrative; it won several awards including the Seumas McNally Grand Prize.

Reus	Reus involves guiding four elemental giants who have the ability to shape the two-dimensional planet. The giants can provide resources on each "patch" of land, such as animals, plants, or minerals. The goal is to provide support to the planet's humans, who act on their own and cannot be directly controlled. The actions of the player can influence the humans' behavior; for example, providing humans with too many resources can cause them to be greedy and wage wars with each other.

Reverie	Reverie is an action-adventure video game developed by New Zealand-based indie studio Rainbite, first released on 5 April 2018.

Re:Zero -Starting Life in Another World-: Death or Kiss	Re:Zero  Starting Life in Another World (Japanese: Re:, Hepburn: Re:Zero kara Hajimeru Isekai Seikatsu), often referred to simply as Re:Zero and also known as Re: Life in a different world from zero, is a Japanese light novel series written by Tappei Nagatsuki and illustrated by Shin'ichir tsuka. It started serialization as a web novel on the user-generated website Shsetsuka ni Nar in 2012. 36 light novels, as well as five side story volumes and nine short story collections have been published by Media Factory under their MF Bunko J imprint. The story centers on Subaru Natsuki, a hikikomori who suddenly finds himself transported to another world on his way home from the convenience store.

Re:Zero -Starting Life in Another World-: The Prophecy of the Throne	In Re:Zero -Starting Life in Another World- The Prophecy of the Throne, the player plays the role of Subaru Natsuki, who finds himself transported to another world. They can explore the Kingdom of Lugunica and interact with either both new or familiar characters from the anime. Subaru's "Return by Death", as in the original, is an important element in terms of game systems. The characters will appear in chibi form during exploration and combat, and see their in-game illustrations during conversations. Before combat, Subaru is required to gather information for his allies. If Subaru has enough information, the player can have two different opinions to choose from and depending on the choice, the number of allies participating in the mission and the behavior of the allies during the mission will change. However, if there is a lack of information, there may be only one opinion or no opinion at all. As a result, the actions of Subaru's peers may not take effect and the difficulty of the mission may increase.

Rewrite	The gameplay in Rewrite follows an interactive branching plot line with multiple scenarios, and focuses on the player character gaining the favor of the six female main characters. There are additional minigames and quests added into the gameplay, which are necessary to complete the game. The game ranked as the best-selling PC game sold in Japan for the time of its release, and charted in the national top 50 twice more afterwards. There have been five manga adaptations based on Rewrite published by ASCII Media Works and Ichijinsha. Comic anthologies, light novels and an art book were also published, as were several music albums. A 24-episode anime television series adaptation, produced by Eight Bit and directed by Motoki Tanaka, aired between July 2016 and March 2017.

Rez Infinite	Rez is a musical rail shooter developed by United Game Artists and published by Sega for the Dreamcast and PlayStation 2. It was released in Japan in 2001, followed by releases to the United States and Europe in 2002. The game was ported to Xbox 360 as Rez HD by Q Entertainment and HexaDrive in 2008. A virtual reality-compatible expanded version dubbed Rez Infinite was co-developed and released through 2016 to 2023 by Enhance Games, Resonair and Monstars for PlayStation 4, Windows, Android, Oculus Quest and PlayStation 5.

Ride	On September 15, 2014, Milestone announced the development of Ride, a motorcycle racing video game.  The studio had previously developed racing games within the licensed series World Rally Championship, MotoGP, SBK, and MXGP.

Ride 2	On September 15, 2014, Milestone announced the development of Ride, a motorcycle racing video game.  The studio had previously developed racing games within the licensed series World Rally Championship, MotoGP, SBK, and MXGP.

Ride 3	On September 15, 2014, Milestone announced the development of Ride, a motorcycle racing video game.  The studio had previously developed racing games within the licensed series World Rally Championship, MotoGP, SBK, and MXGP.

Ride 4	Players engage in motorcycle racing using one of 170 motorcycles in 30 circuits, some of which are licensed.  It has online multiplayer.

Riders Republic	The five main activities available in the game include mountain biking, skiing, snowboarding, wingsuit flying and skateboarding. Ubisoft described the game as a "massively multiplayer sports game", as up to 64 players can compete against each other in Mass Races competitions. The PS4 and Xbox One versions only support about 20 players. In addition, players can also play a 6v6 competitive multiplayer mode named "Tricks Battle Arena". In this mode, each team competes in an arena and needs to perform as many tricks as possible in order to score Trick points. The team with the highest score is the winner. The game is set in an open world which meshes seven distinct national parks in the Western United States, namely Bryce Canyon, Yosemite Valley, Sequoia Park, Zion, Canyonlands, Mammoth Mountain, and Grand Teton, into one enormous single map. The game features social hubs in which players can meet and interact with each other.

Rime	Rime (stylized as RiME) is an adventure puzzle video game developed by Tequila Works. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in May 2017, for Nintendo Switch in November 2017, and for Amazon Luna in October 2020. The game follows a boy arriving at and searching a mysterious island with a fox-like spirit as a guide. The player guides the boy in solving environmental puzzles across five large levels.

Rise of the Triad Remastered	The game began as a follow-up game to Wolfenstein 3D, but was soon altered and became a stand-alone game. It includes both single-player and multi-player functions, allowing individuals to connect with other gamers and tackle missions as a team. It is powered by a modified version of the Wolfenstein 3D engine and it was supposed to be called Wolfenstein 3D II: the Rise of the Triad. The idea was scrapped by id Software and Apogee Software bought the license of that game.

Risen 3: Titan Lords Enhanced Edition	Risen 3: Titan Lords is an action role-playing game developed by Piranha Bytes and published by Deep Silver. It is the sequel to Risen 2: Dark Waters and the third installment in the Risen series. The Enhanced Edition of the game was released on 21 August 2015 worldwide for the PlayStation 4. It is also provided as a free upgrade for PC players who own the game and all its DLC on Steam.

Risk	Risk is a strategy board game of diplomacy, conflict and conquest for two to six players. The standard version is played on a board depicting a political map of the world, divided into 42 territories, which are grouped into six continents.  Turns rotate among players who control armies of playing pieces with which they attempt to capture territories from other players, with results determined by dice rolls. Players may form and dissolve alliances during the course of the game.  The goal of the game is to occupy every territory on the board and, in doing so, eliminate the other players.  The game can be lengthy, requiring several hours to multiple days to finish.  European versions are structured so that each player has a limited "secret mission" objective that shortens the game.

Risk of Rain	Risk of Rain is a 2013 roguelike platform game developed by Hopoo Games and published by Chucklefish. Initially made by a two-student team from the University of Washington using the GameMaker engine, was funded through Kickstarter before being released on Microsoft Windows in November 2013. Ports for OS X and Linux versions were released a year later, with consoles versions being released in the later half of the 2010s.

Risk of Rain 2	Risk of Rain 2 is a roguelike third-person shooter developed by Hopoo Games and published by Gearbox Publishing. A sequel to 2013's Risk of Rain, it was released in early access for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in 2019 before fully releasing in August 2020 with a release for Stadia coming a month later.

Rive	Rive is a classic 2D side-scrolling platformer mixed with shooting elements, with the ability to shoot in full 360 degrees around the player character who gains the ability to "alter the behavior of their robotic enemies by collecting and uploading hacks". The game features a mission system and high scores for players to come back to after completing the game's story.

Roblox	Roblox (/roblks/) is an online game platform and game creation system developed by Roblox Corporation that allows users to program games and play games created by other users. Created by David Baszucki and Erik Cassel in 2004 and released in 2006, the platform hosts user-created games of multiple genres coded in the programming language Lua. For most of Roblox's history, it was relatively small, both as a platform and as a company. Roblox began to grow rapidly in the second half of the 2010s, and this growth has been accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic.

River City Girls	Shin Nekketsu Kha: Kunio-tachi no Banka (1994), where Misako and Kyoko previously appeared, was localized by WayForward as a prequel, River City Girls Zero, being released for the Nintendo Switch on February 14, 2022 and September 21, 2022 on other platforms. A sequel, titled River City Girls 2, was released by WayForward and Arc System Works that same year, on December 1, 2022 in Japan and Asia and on December 15, 2022 in the US.

River City Melee: Battle Royal Special	A few of the early Kunio games for the NES were localized for the North American market. These include Renegade, River City Ransom, Super Dodge Ball, Crash 'n' the Boys: Street Challenge and Nintendo World Cup, which are heavily "Americanized" versions of the Kunio-kun games. Techns Japan has released over twenty Kunio-kun titles for the Famicom, Game Boy, and Super Famicom in Japan. In addition, licensed ports of the games were made for other platforms such as the PC-Engine (through Naxat Soft), Mega Drive (through Pal Soft) and the X68000 (through Sharp).

River City Melee Mach!!	A few of the early Kunio games for the NES were localized for the North American market. These include Renegade, River City Ransom, Super Dodge Ball, Crash 'n' the Boys: Street Challenge and Nintendo World Cup, which are heavily "Americanized" versions of the Kunio-kun games. Techns Japan has released over twenty Kunio-kun titles for the Famicom, Game Boy, and Super Famicom in Japan. In addition, licensed ports of the games were made for other platforms such as the PC-Engine (through Naxat Soft), Mega Drive (through Pal Soft) and the X68000 (through Sharp).

Road 96	Road 96 is a 2021 adventure role-playing video game developed and published by French studio DigixArt as part of HP's OMEN Presents, with additional publishing support by Plug In Digital. The game is set in mid-to-late 1996 within the fictional nation of Petria, an authoritarian country ruled by a dictatorship undergoing a potentially transformative election season. The player controls several teenagers as they attempt to flee the country through Petria's northern border via Road 96.

Road Not Taken	Road Not Taken combines roguelike and puzzle game elements with the hopes of exploring surprises in accordance to the game's theme. As players explore, they will come across wild animals, impassable barriers, lost children and other objects. An object's use is not explained upfront, players are encouraged to learn about each object's use as they discover them, in traditional roguelike fashion.

Road Rage	Road Rage is set in the open world, fictitious city of Ashen. Players ride around on a motorcycle and are free to explore the city at their leisure. Ashen itself is divided into seven districts, ranging from the downtown core to suburban farmland. Gameplay in Road Rage is composed mostly of standard "circuit" races, time trials, the performing of stunts and assassinations of rival bikers, all of which and more are encountered throughout the campaign. While racing, players are armed with melee weapons (and firearms in the late game) which may be used to attack opponents. All gameplay and combat takes place entirely on the bike, with players being able to simultaneous accelerate and hit opposing racers with weapons such as baseball bats, hockey sticks, axes and long knives. The motorcycle can be upgraded via cash won from events, with an option to buy improved vehicles, cosmetics and additional weapons as well.

Road Redemption	The game is a spiritual successor to the Road Rash series of racing video games. The game aims to replicate the arcade-like simplicity and silliness of the Road Rash games, while introducing more modern graphics and gameplay mechanics. In addition to the melee weapons featured in Road Rash, Road Redemption introduces firearms in the players options for weapons as well. The game will feature split screen multiplayer modes, including the computer-based ones, which is more of a rarity for the platform. The proposed Wii U version would have also featured the ability for multiplayer sessions to take place with one player on the television and the other using just the Wii U GamePad screen.

Road to Ballhalla	tinyBuild Inc. is an American publisher of indie games based in Bellevue, Washington. The company was established by Alex Nichiporchik and Tom Brien in 2011 to expand Brien's game No Time to Explain into a commercial release. Building from the success of the game's Steam release in 2013, tinyBuild partnered with DoubleDutch Games for the development and release of SpeedRunners, which landed tinyBuild further publishing deals. Since March 2020, the company has been founding or acquiring new studios to expand. It became a public company on the Alternative Investment Market in March 2021.

Robonauts	Robonauts is a 2D arcade-like shooting game developed and published by QubicGames. It was released on Nintendo Switch on 15 September 2017 in North America and Europe and in Japan on 21 June 2018, and PlayStation 4 on 19 September 2017.

Robotics;Notes Dash	The story is set half a year after the events of Robotics;Notes, and follows the former members of the robotics club. It features several crossover elements with other games in the series, including the appearance of the Steins;Gate character Itaru "Daru" Hashida. The game's story branches into different directions throughout the game, based on destinations the player chooses in the in-game mobile app Deluoode Map.

Robotics;Notes Elite	Six manga have been produced, and an anime adaptation by Production I.G aired in Fuji TV's Noitamina slot between October 2012 and March 2013. The anime has been licensed by Funimation in North America. Robotics;Notes DaSH, a sequel to the game, was released in 2019.

Rock Band 4	Rock Band 4 represented Harmonix's return to the franchise after an almost three-year hiatus, following the diminishing popularity of the rhythm game market that started in 2009. Announced on March 5, 2015, Rock Band 4 refocuses on the core gameplay of the franchise, reducing the emphasis on musical instruction that was employed by its predecessor, Rock Band 3, while emphasizing the game's social interactions, as well as new features enabling players to incorporate improvisation into their performancesuch as "freestyle solos" on guitar, and "freeform melodies" on multi-part vocals.

Rock of Ages 2: Bigger & Boulder	Rock of Ages 2: Bigger & Boulder is a tower defense racing video game developed by ACE Team and published by Atlus USA. The game is the sequel to the 2011 Rock of Ages, and was released in August 2017 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. A Nintendo Switch port of the game released in May 2019.

Rock of Ages III: Make & Break	Players build boulders and roll them into enemy gates as fast as they can. Once they break through they want to squish everything. This seemingly simple task is made more difficult because both sides pepper each other's lanes with traps, obstacles, and defenses. Unlike the first two games in the series, the game lets players make different courses which are conquered during competition.

Rocket Arena	Rocket Arena is a 3v3 competitive multiplayer game played from a third-person perspective. At launch, the game features 10 maps and 10 playable characters, each of whom have different abilities. The player's main weapon is a rocket launcher, though there are items that the players can pick up in the arena. The game does not feature a health system and instead relies a system named Blast Meter. Whenever a player is hit by a rocket, their blast meter will fill up. A player with a full blast meter, when being hit by a rocket, will ricochet and fly out of the map, resulting in death. The player character is very mobile and has the ability to dodge other rockets, triple jump, and rocket jumping.

Rockets Rockets Rockets	Rockets Rockets Rockets is set in a 2D world where the player controls a rocket while attacking and being attacked by AI and human controlled enemies. The aim of the game is to try to get a three point lead against your enemy. The game contains power-ups and different environments.

Rocksmith 2014	Rocksmith 2014 is a music video game produced by Ubisoft. It is a followup to the 2011 game Rocksmith, but has been described as a replacement to the original game rather than a sequel. Like its predecessor, the game allows players to plug in virtually any electric guitar or bass guitar and play along via the use of a USB adapter  removing the need for any proprietary controller like other music games such as Guitar Hero. The game comes with 66 songs on disk, with over a thousand more available to download as paid DLC. It was announced at Ubisoft's 2013 E3 presentation and was released for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and PC/Mac in October 2013, with versions for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One releasing in November 2014.

Rogue Legacy	Rogue Legacy is a 2013 platform game with roguelike elements developed and published by Cellar Door Games. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, Linux, OS X, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, and iOS. A sequel, Rogue Legacy 2, was released on April 28, 2022 for Microsoft Windows, Xbox Series X/S and Xbox One.

Rogue Stormers	In 2012, Spellbound Entertainment went into administration, emerging as Black Forest Games. They have since planned on continuing the development under the name DieselStrmers until the developer changed the name to Rogue Stormers in 2015.

Romance of the Three Kingdoms XIII	The game received an aggregated review score of 36 out of 40 from Famitsu magazine.

Romance of the Three Kingdoms XIV	The gameplay of Romance of the Three Kingdoms XIV is to choose any characters by triumphing over the land and start taking charge of the fate of China.

Romancing SaGa 2	Set during the history of the kingdom of Avalon, the player takes on the role of a dynasty of rulers as they fight the Seven Heroes, former saviors of the world corrupted into demons. Gameplay features nonlinear exploration and expansion of the game world and narrative, with the turn-based battles featuring group formations. As with other SaGa titles, there are no experience points and character attributes and skills are dependent on actions taken in battle. A key mechanic is choosing the next ruler of Avalon, who will inherit the abilities of the previous ruler.

Romancing SaGa 3	A remaster for Android, iOS and PlayStation Vita was announced on March 28, 2017. On April 11, 2017, Akitoshi Kawazu tweeted that they would be working on an English version of the game after releasing it in Japan. The remaster of Romancing SaGa 3 was released worldwide on November 11, 2019 for Android, iOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Windows and Xbox One with the game available in English for the very first time.

Ronin	Ronin is a turn-based action platform video game developed by indie developer Tomasz Wacawek and published by Devolver Digital. It was released for Microsoft Windows on 27 May 2015 into Steam Early Access and left it on 30 June 2015. A later update for the game introduced builds for OS X and Linux on 15 October 2015. A PlayStation 4 port of Ronin was released on 1 November 2016.

Root Film	The game plays as a murder mystery visual novel; much of the game is spent reading text to advance the story. When the player is ready to accuse a suspect, a fighting video game-styled segment ensues. Other segments include mini-games where inconsistencies must be fixed and stories put together into a narrative, similar to aspects of the Danganronpa and Ace Attorney series of games.

Root Letter	Root Letter: Last Answer, a revamp of the game with additional content, including live-action sequences, was released on August 30 and September 3, 2019 for Europe and North America with an initial release in Asia in December 2018.

Root Letter: Last Answer	Root Letter: Last Answer, a revamp of the game with additional content, including live-action sequences, was released on August 30 and September 3, 2019 for Europe and North America with an initial release in Asia in December 2018.

Rory McIlroy PGA Tour	Rory McIlroy PGA Tour is a sports video game developed by EA Tiburon and published by Electronic Arts for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It is an entry in the EA Sports PGA Tour franchise, and was the first series since 1999 not to feature Tiger Woods as its namesake, replacing him with Rory McIlroy.

Roundabout	The game involves a constantly-rotating limousine which the player has to drive around an open world while completing miscellaneous objectives such as picking up and dropping people off or finding collectible items. The gameplay has been described as inspired by Kuru Kuru Kururin (where the player also controls a constantly-rotating vehicle), and Crazy Taxi (where the goal of the game is to drive Non-player characters from one location to another).

RPG Maker MV	The RPG Maker series was originally released primarily in Japan, but it was translated by fans in China, Taiwan, South Korea, Russia, and North America with RPG Maker 2000 and RPG Maker 2003. Most of the later engines have been officially translated.

Rugby 15	Rugby 15 featured the Northern Hemisphere Rugby Union licenses while its only real rival in terms of Rugby Union video games, Rugby Challenge 3, featured the Southern Hemisphere licences. HB Studios had not developed a rugby union game since Rugby World Cup 2011, which was published by 505 Games. HB Studios then however announced the intention to start releasing an annual rugby game. This did not occur, and future videogames in the series were developed by a different studio.

Rugby 20	Rugby 20 is the only rugby union video game that exclusively features the best competitions and national teams in the Northern Hemisphere whilst the rights for the English national rugby team and other licences such as the Super Rugby competition, the Australian, Fijian, New Zealander and South African national teams are exclusively owned by their current rivals in the rugby video game industry, Rugby Challenge 4. However, neither rugby game officially detains the rights to include the official Rugby World Cup competition as a playable competition in their respective games.

Rugby Challenge 3	Rugby Challenge 3 is the first game in the series to include the seven-a-side variant of rugby union. It is also the first in the series to include a licence for SANZAR teams. However, it does not feature the Top 14 or The Pro12.

Rugby League Live 3	Rugby League Live 3 is a sports game in the Rugby League series of Rugby League video games. Rugby League Live 3 was released on PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One.

Rugby League Live 4	Rugby League Live 4 is a video game developed by Big Ant and published by Tru Blu, part of the Rugby League video game series. The game was released on 28 July 2017 for consoles in Australia and was announced in conjunction with the NRL. It is available on Xbox One, PlayStation 4 and PC Steam, which was released on 13 September 2017.

Ruined King: A League of Legends Story	Ruined King: A League of Legends Story is a 2021 turn-based role-playing video game developed by Airship Syndicate and published by Riot Forge. A spin-off to Riot Games' League of Legends, Ruined King uses characters and a setting originating in its parent title.

Ruiner	Ruiner is a cyberpunk twin-stick shooter video game developed by Reikon Games and published by Devolver Digital. It was released for Linux, Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on 26 September 2017 and for Nintendo Switch on 18 June 2020.

Runbow	Runbow is a platform racing video game made for the Wii U and later ported to Microsoft Windows, New Nintendo 3DS, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, and Nintendo Switch. Runbow was developed by independent video game developer 13AM Games as their debut title, releasing it on 27 August 2015 in North America, 3 September 2015 in Europe, and 23 October 2015 in Australasia. The game was released in Japan on 25 November 2015.

Runner2: Future Legend of Rhythm Alien	Bit.Trip Presents... Runner2: Future Legend of Rhythm Alien, generally shortened as Runner2, is a 2013 side-scrolling platformer developed by Gaijin Games. The game is the direct sequel to Bit.Trip Runner and has been released as a downloadable title available on the PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, Xbox 360 and Wii U consoles, Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux and on iOS, as well as PlayStation 4 in 2016 and Nintendo Switch in 2024. The PC, Mac, Linux, and Wii U versions were self-published by Gaijin Games, and the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions were published by Aksys Games. 

Runner3	Runner3 is a rhythm platform game in which players take control of CommanderVideo, the protagonist of the Bit.Trip series. Similar to the previous two Runner games, CommanderVideo runs forward automatically and the player controls actions such as jumping, sliding, and kicking to overcome obstacles and collect items. Many of the game objects are encountered in sync with each level's background music, encouraging the player to keep the beat while playing through each level.

Rust	Rust is a multiplayer survival video game developed by Facepunch Studios. It was first released in early access in December 2013 and received its full release in February 2018. Rust is available on Windows and macOS. Console versions for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One developed in conjunction with Double Eleven were released in May 2021. Rust was initially created as a clone of DayZ, a popular mod for ARMA 2, with crafting elements akin to those in Minecraft.

RWBY: Grimm Eclipse	The game allows one to four of the main characters to battle through waves of Grimm with the gameplay having experience points that allow the player to upgrade their character's status. The action takes place in the Emerald Forest, Mountain Glenn, Forever Fall and ultimately to an island named after the antagonist, Doctor Merlot.

The Ryuo's Work Is Never Done!	The Ryuo's Work Is Never Done! (Japanese: !, Hepburn: Ry no Oshigoto!, lit. "The Ryuo's Work!") is a Japanese light novel series written by Shirow Shiratori and illustrated by Shirabi. SB Creative have released eighteen volumes since 2015 under their GA Bunko label. A manga adaptation with art by Kogetaokoge was serialized in Square Enix's seinen manga magazine Young Gangan from 2015 to 2019, and has been collected in ten tankbon volumes. A 12-episode anime television series adaptation by Project No.9 aired from January to March 2018.

Sackboy: A Big Adventure	Sackboy: A Big Adventure is a 2020 platform game developed by Sumo Digital and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. A spin-off of the LittleBigPlanet series, it follows Sackboy, and features 3D platforming as opposed to 2.5D in previous entries. It was released for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5 in November 2020 and Windows in October 2022.

SaGa: Scarlet Grace - Ambitions	SaGa: Scarlet Grace is a role-playing video game co-developed by Square Enix and Studio Reel. The twelfth entry in the SaGa series, the game was published by Square Enix in 2016 for the PlayStation Vita. An expanded port subtitled Ambitions was released in 2018 in Japan and in 2019 worldwide for Android, iOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Windows. The story follows four characters pursuing separate missions across the splintered remains of a dissolved Empire; central to the plot is the Firebringer, a rebellious deity defeated during the Empire's height. Gameplay focuses on the protagonists exploring the nonlinear world, taking part in turn-based battles where skill growth depends on chosen actions.

SaGa Frontier Remastered	SaGa Frontier is a 1997 role-playing video game developed by Square for the PlayStation. The game was published by Sony Computer Entertainment (SCEA) in North America on March 25, 1998. It is the seventh game in the SaGa series, and the first to be released on the PlayStation. It is also the first in the series to be released under the SaGa brand outside Japan; previous overseas releases had used the Final Fantasy brand instead. A remastered version featuring additional characters, events and features was released on April 15, 2021 for Android, iOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Windows.

Saint Seiya: Soldiers' Soul	Similar to the previous title, Soldiers Soul is a 3D versus fighting game, it retains all the features from its predecessor and they've also been enhanced.  PC and PS4 versions will run at 1080p 60fps with better graphics and textures, while the PS3 version will run at 720p 30fps with slightly lower graphics.

Saints Row: Gat out of Hell	Saints Row: Gat out of Hell is a 2015 action-adventure game developed by Volition and High Voltage Software, published by Deep Silver and distributed by Square Enix in North America. It was released for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox 360, Xbox One, and Linux. The PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of the game were released both physically and digitally; so were the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions, although the latter two also saw a release bundled alongside Saints Row IV: Re-Elected.

Saints Row IV: Re-Elected	Saints Row IV is a 2013 action-adventure game developed by Volition and published by Deep Silver. It is the sequel to 2011's Saints Row: The Third, the fourth installment of the Saints Row series, and the final main installment in the original series that began with the original game. The game was released in August 2013 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360, and was later ported to PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Linux in 2015. A Nintendo Switch port was released on March 27, 2020, and a Google Stadia port was released on November 1, 2021.

Saints Row: The Third Remastered	Saints Row: The Third is a 2011 action-adventure game developed by Volition and published by THQ. It is the sequel to 2008's Saints Row 2 and the third installment in the Saints Row series. It was released on November 15, 2011 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360, and May 10, 2019 for the Nintendo Switch. A remastered version of Saints Row: The Third, titled Saints Row: The Third Remastered, was released by Deep Silver on May 22, 2020 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, March 5, 2021 for Stadia, May 25, 2021 for PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X/S, and July 29, 2021 for Luna.

Sakuna: Of Rice and Ruin	Sakuna: Of Rice and Ruin is an action role-playing simulation video game developed by Edelweiss and published by Marvelous. It was first released in North America on November 10, 2020 for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and the PC through Steam. It was later released in Japan on November 12 and in Europe and Australia on November 20.

Salt and Sanctuary	The game received positive reception from critics, who praised its graphical style and gameplay. A sequel, Salt and Sacrifice, was released in 2022.

Sam & Max Beyond Time and Space Remastered	Sam & Max Beyond Time and Space, originally released as Sam & Max: Season Two, is an episodic graphic adventure video game by Telltale Games based on the Sam & Max comic book series created by Steve Purcell. It is a sequel to Telltale's previous Sam & Max game, Sam & Max Save the World, and was originally released as five episodes for Microsoft Windows over the course of late 2007 and early 2008, before being ported to other platforms in the following years. A remaster of the game by Skunkape Games was released in December 2021 for Windows, Nintendo Switch and Xbox One, and in September 2022 for PlayStation 4.

Sam & Max Save the World Remastered	Sam & Max Save the World is a graphic adventure video game developed by Telltale Games. The game was originally released as Sam & Max: Season One before being renamed in early 2009. Save the World was developed in episodic fashion, comprising six episodes that were released for Microsoft Windows over the course of late 2006 and early 2007. The episodes were initially distributed online by GameTap and Telltale Games themselves, although the later retail releases of the game were published by The Adventure Company and JoWooD Productions in North America and Europe respectively. A Wii port of the game was published in late 2008, and an Xbox Live Arcade version was released in mid-2009. A remaster of the game by Skunkape Games was released in December 2020 for Nintendo Switch and Microsoft Windows, in August 2021 for Xbox One, and in September 2022 for PlayStation 4.

Sam & Max: The Devil's Playhouse Remastered	Sam & Max: The Devil's Playhouse is a series of graphic adventure games, requiring the user to control Sam and Max to specific locations, interacting with the environment, collecting and using objects, and talking to other characters in the game in order to solve puzzles and complete the game. The previous two Sam & Max seasons used a traditional point-and-click interface, which is well-suited for Windows and MacOS users but did not translate well to traditional gamepad controls. The game engine for The Devil's Playhouse has been redesigned to handle both the point-and-click scheme and typical console-based controls for third-person perspective games. On a Windows or MacOS computer, the player has the option of plugging in a gamepad to use this second set of controls. Other aspects, such as inventory management, have also been refined to better suit console players or players not familiar with the adventure game genre. The iPad version of the game features direct touch interaction with the characters, scenery, and inventory.

Samurai Aces	The science fantasy story of Sengoku Ace resolves around the six Feudal Japan (Sengoku period) characters sent on a mission to stop an evil cult and rescue the Shogun's kidnapped daughter, princess Tsukihime (Moon Princess), before she can be used as a sacrifice to resurrect their demon god. The game features 21 endings, different for various characters and two-player pairings.

Samurai Aces II: Sengoku Blade	Sengoku Blade is horizontal-scrolling shoot 'em up. The game takes place in an imaginative and futuristic version of feudal Japan featuring steam-powered machinery. The Saturn version provides an option to choose a difficulty level between 1 and 7, configure controls, and set the number of lives between 1 and 4.:67

Samurai Jack: Battle Through Time	This is the first Samurai Jack video game to be released on Microsoft and Apple platforms, as Samurai Jack: The Shadow of Aku was only released for PlayStation 2 and GameCube.

Samurai Shodown	Samurai Shodown is a 2D fighting game with 3D graphics that uses many elements from past games in the series. It shares similarities with The King of Fighters XIV and SNK Heroines: Tag Team Frenzy.

Samurai Shodown NeoGeo Collection	The stories in the series take place in 18th-century Japan, during the Sakoku or seclusion period of Japan (the first four games run across 1788 and 1789) with great artistic license so that foreign-born characters (including some from places that did not exist as such in 1788) and fictional monsters can also be part of the story. The plot of each game is quite different, but they circle a central group of characters and a region in Japan.

Samurai Warriors 4	A reboot of the series titled Samurai Warriors 5 was released in June 2021.

Samurai Warriors 5	Like previous games, the game is a hack and slash, in which the player faces against hundreds of enemy soldiers in a battlefield, with the objective usually being the defeat of an enemy commander. The game features a new Hyper Attack, which allows the player to traverse great distance while attacking enemies, and Ultimate Skill, augments that, depending on their type, can be used to continue combos, regenerate Musou Gauge, stun enemies, or deal a barrage of attacks. The game uses an art style resembling traditional Japanese painting.

Sayonara Wild Hearts	Sayonara Wild Hearts is a music-based action game created by Swedish developer Simogo and published by Annapurna Interactive. Described as a "pop album video game", Sayonara Wild Hearts follows the story of a heartbroken young woman through a surrealistic landscape. Each level of the game is set to a song, with the player guiding the woman while collecting hearts, avoiding obstacles, and fighting enemies. The game was released for iOS, macOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and tvOS devices in September 2019, for Windows in December 2019, and for Xbox One in February 2020. It was met with positive reviews for its visuals, soundtrack, and gameplay, and nominated for several year-end awards.

Scarlet Nexus	Scarlet Nexus is a 2021 action role-playing game developed by Bandai Namco Studios and Tose, and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. The game was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S on June 25, 2021. It received generally positive reviews from critics, with praise for the combat, but criticism for its side missions. It sold 1 million units by April 2022.

Score Rush Extended	The company makes shoot 'em up games, targeting primarily Xbox LIVE Indie Games and Xbox LIVE Arcade which are especially popular in the Japanese market.  The company and many of their games have won awards, including the Rogers Small Business Big Idea Contest.

Scott Pilgrim vs. the World: The Game - Complete Edition	Loosely following the story of the graphic novels, up to four players can play as Scott Pilgrim, Ramona Flowers, Kim Pine or Stephen Stills, along with the unlockable character NegaScott and the downloadable characters Knives Chau and Wallace Wells, who must battle through seven levels in order to defeat Ramona's seven evil exes. Characters have their own individual movesets, which can be expanded upon by gaining enough experience, and are also able to use weapons. Each player has Heart Points and Guts Points, the latter of which can revive players if they are knocked out, or be used to perform special moves such as summoning Knives or the unlockable assist character Mr. Chau. Defeating enemies earns coins which can be spent in shops to purchase items that can replenish health or boost stats. Certain items can be taken "to go" to be automatically used when the player runs out of health. Players can also enter Subspace areas which act as bonus areas where extra coins can be earned. During co-operative play, players can revive fallen comrades at the cost of some money, give each other health or money, and simultaneously taunt for a combined attack. Various cheat codes unlock extra features, such as a Sound Test, a Boss Rush and a Survival Horror mode.

Scrabble	In 1988, Dragon gave Leisure Genius' Macintosh version (promoted as The Computer Edition of Scrabble).

Screencheat	Screencheat is a multiplayer first-person shooter video game, but in functionality it is a second-person shooter, because every player's character model is invisible. Since the viewpoints of all players are shown on the screen, players are required to look at others' screens to deduce their opponents' location, hence the name of the game. The maps are brightly colored in order to make it easier to figure out where a player is.

SD Gundam G Generation Cross Rays	The G Generation series technically began in 1996, when Bandai released a series of six games for Nintendo's Super Famicom console's Sufami Turbo add-on, each focusing on a particular era from the Gundam multiverse. A Generation focused on the One Year War, B Generation focused on the Gryps Conflict, and so forth up to F Generation, which covered the plot of G Gundam.  Instead of continuing the obvious progression and making a G Generation game themed about Gundam Wing, Bandai held on to the title. Since "G" was often used as an abbreviation for "Gundam", it was decided that G Generation would encompass a wider scope. When it was finally released in 1998 for the PlayStation, G Generation covered the plot for Mobile Suit Gundam through Char's Counterattack and featured characters from the remaining Universal Century series as well as G Gundam, Gundam Wing and Gundam X.

SD Gundam G Generation Genesis	The G Generation series technically began in 1996, when Bandai released a series of six games for Nintendo's Super Famicom console's Sufami Turbo add-on, each focusing on a particular era from the Gundam multiverse. A Generation focused on the One Year War, B Generation focused on the Gryps Conflict, and so forth up to F Generation, which covered the plot of G Gundam.  Instead of continuing the obvious progression and making a G Generation game themed about Gundam Wing, Bandai held on to the title. Since "G" was often used as an abbreviation for "Gundam", it was decided that G Generation would encompass a wider scope. When it was finally released in 1998 for the PlayStation, G Generation covered the plot for Mobile Suit Gundam through Char's Counterattack and featured characters from the remaining Universal Century series as well as G Gundam, Gundam Wing and Gundam X.

Sea of Solitude	Sea of Solitude is an adventure video game developed by Jo-Mei Games and published by Electronic Arts. The game was released for Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in July 2019. A director's cut version of the game was announced at The Game Awards 2020, unlike the original version, the game is published by Quantic Dream and was released exclusively for Nintendo Switch in March 2021.

Seasons After Fall	The gameplay is a mixture of platforming and puzzle solving. Gradually the player unlocks the ability to change seasons at their will, manipulating the environment to allow the player to progress. For example, switching to winter will cause lakes to freeze, so they can be walked over, and then switching to fall will cause strong winds in certain areas, which lift up some platforms. Flying jellyfish can be used as a mode of transportation. Certain plants will allow the fox to jump higher. The game will not contain a steep difficulty curve in an attempt to feel generous to players. The player cannot actually die or lose  there are no "enemies" to speak of, but rather the game's main obstacles come in the form of figuring out what to do and where to go next.

Sbastien Loeb Rally Evo	Sbastien Loeb Rally Evo is a racing video game developed by Milestone, who had previously released the official WRC series from 2010 to 2013. It was released on January 29, 2016.

Secret of Mana	Secret of Mana, originally released in Japan as Seiken Densetsu 2, is a 1993 action role-playing game developed and published by Square for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. It is the sequel to the 1991 game Seiken Densetsu, released in North America as Final Fantasy Adventure and in Europe as Mystic Quest, and it was the first Seiken Densetsu title to be marketed as part of the Mana series rather than the Final Fantasy series. Set in a high fantasy universe, the game follows three heroes as they attempt to prevent an empire from conquering the world with the power of an ancient flying fortress.

Secret Ponchos	The game is set in the Wild West, where the player is an outlaw and fugitive. The primary focus is player versus player (PvP), where players duel online to gain reputation and notoriety. The game plays from a top-down perspective. The controls play like twin stick shooters.

Sega Genesis Classics	Sega re-released the first four physically released volumes as the Sega Genesis Classic Collection: Gold Edition (Sega Mega Drive Classics: Gold Edition in PAL regions), for Windows. It is a four-disc set of the forty-six Sega Genesis games from the first four volumes. The collection has configuring keyboard support which provides a personalised gaming experience, a well as a multiplayer mode for a select number of titles. The collection also has save and load functionality that is included in all of the games that allows the player to pick up and play saved games at the exact point they left off.

Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice	Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice is a 2019 action-adventure game developed by FromSoftware. It was released in Japan by FromSoftware and internationally by Activision  for the PlayStation 4, Windows and Xbox One in March 2019 and for Stadia in October 2020. 

Sengoku Basara 4	An expanded version of the game for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 titled Sengoku BASARA 4 Sumeragi was released in Japan on July 23, 2015.

Senko no Ronde 2	Due to a past catastrophe on Earth, humanity was forced to live amongst the stars for several centuries, resulting in the creation of the S.D. calendar and the birth of the Aria Federation, an empire whose influence extends from Earth to Saturn. In S.D. 1478, an embassy located within the empire's capital on Earth's moon was seized by terrorists, and forces deployed by Aria's Special Space Service ended in disaster as the terrorists triggered a self-detonation device, killing themselves and several civilians in the process.

Senran Kagura: Estival Versus	Estival Versus has two special editions, one for the PlayStation 4, and one for the PlayStation Vita. The editions are called the Nyuu Nyuu DX Pack Premium, and contained: a copy of the game; a special collectors box; a product code for Senran Kagura: Estival VersusEve Full of Swimsuits, a 30-minute original video animation (OVA) featuring 20 of the game's characters; a Drama CD; a soundtrack CD; and mini figurines. The only difference between the two editions are which set of figurines they contain, and what tracks are on each Drama CD. The Vita special edition contains figurines of characters from the Hebijo Clandestine Girls Academy, while the PlayStation 4 edition contains figurines from the Gessen Girls Private School. The first-print run of the collectors editions also contained a bonus 2-CD set of the game's soundtrack, and a visual book.

Senran Kagura: Peach Beach Splash	The game focuses on the Peach Beach Splash water gun tournament, to which female ninjas from various factions are invited, and where the winning team has any reward it wants. Players take the roles of the ninjas, and fight in various kinds of game modes, some of which are online multiplayer battles, and some of which are single-player.

Senran Kagura Burst Re:Newal	Senran Kagura is a side-scrolling "hack and slash" action game. The player assumes control of one of five female ninjas. The more the game characters are damaged by enemies, the more their clothes are torn off. The information for each character's back story, major plot points, and general information on the universe of Senran Kagura is displayed in what is called the "novel", and is structured similarly to a visual novel. The novel is introduced at major plot points in the game story.

Serial Cleaner	Players control a cleaner who is hired to remove evidence at crime scenes in the 1970s.  Besides moving corpses, this takes a literal aspect as they vacuum up blood.  Police are already at the scene, and if they see the cleaner, they chase.  Player can hide in various spots on the map, which causes the police to lose interest in them.  Being caught forces players to replay the level and randomizes the locations of the objects that need to be cleaned.

Serious Sam 4	Serious Sam 4 is a 2020 first-person shooter developed by Croatian studio Croteam and published by Devolver Digital. It is part of the Serious Sam series and a prequel to Serious Sam 3: BFE. The game was announced in April 2018, originally as Serious Sam 4: Planet Badass, was released in September 2020 for Microsoft Windows and Stadia, followed by PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S ports in December 2021. A standalone expansion, Serious Sam: Siberian Mayhem, was released in January 2022.

Serious Sam Collection	Serious Sam is a video game series created and primarily developed by Croteam. It consists predominantly of first-person shooters. The series follows the advances of mercenary Sam "Serious" Stone against Mental, an extraterrestrial overlord who attempts to destroy humanity at various points in time. The first game, Serious Sam: The First Encounter, was released for Microsoft Windows in March 2001. Several spin-offs were developed by other developers, such as a Palm OS conversion of The First Encounter by InterActive Vision, Serious Sam: Next Encounter (on GameCube and PlayStation 2) by Climax Solent, and Serious Sam Advance (on Game Boy Advance) by Climax London. All three were published by Global Star Software.

Seum: Speedrunners from Hell	On October 20, 2017, it got its first DLC titled "The Drunk Side of the Moon".

The Seven Deadly Sins: Knights of Britannia	The Seven Deadly Sins (Japanese: , Hepburn: Nanatsu no Taizai) is a Japanese fantasy manga series written and illustrated by Nakaba Suzuki. It was serialized in Kodansha's Weekly Shnen Magazine from October 2012 to March 2020, with the chapters collected into 41 tankbon volumes. Featuring a setting similar to the European Middle Ages, the story follows a titular group of knights representing the seven deadly sins. The manga has been licensed by Kodansha USA for English publication in North America, while the chapters were released digitally by Crunchyroll in over 170 countries as they were published in Japan.

The Sexy Brutale	The Sexy Brutale is an adventure puzzle video game. The player is tasked with exploring a mansion that is stuck in a time loop and saving its guests before they are killed off.

Shadow Complex Remastered	The game follows Jason and his girlfriend Claire, out to explore some caverns. When Claire goes missing, he finds a massive underground complex with soldiers and high-end technology. Jason must rescue Claire and discover the plot behind the faction operating the complex. Inspired by the Metroid series, Shadow Complex is a 2.5D Metroidvania-style game where the player controls Jason through the underground complex, defeating hostile forces, and finding various power-ups that enable further exploration of the complex. The original script of Shadow Complex was written by Peter David.

Shadowgate	The player must solve a series of puzzles throughout the castle to proceed to the Warlock Lord's chamber. Due to the castle's perilous nature, at least one lit torch must be in the player's possession at all times. If the torch is extinguished, the player soon stumbles, breaking his neck, and must then continue from a saved game (or the area in which they died, in game console versions). Only a finite number of torches are to be found throughout the game, which effectively acts as a time limit to proceedings. Various items that can be acquired include a sword, a sling and other ancient weapons; though these weapons can not actually be used as striking weapons, they can be clicked on at the appropriate time to deliver a fatal blow to specific enemies.

Shadow Man Remastered	Shadow Man is an action-adventure video game developed by Acclaim Studios Teesside and published by Acclaim Entertainment. It is based on the Shadow Man comic book series published by Valiant Comics. The game was announced in 1997 and was originally slated for a late 1998 release on Nintendo 64 and an early 1999 release for Microsoft Windows, but was delayed to August 31, 1999. A PlayStation version was also released on the same day. A Dreamcast version was released three months later on December 1.

Shadow of the Beast	Gameplay of Shadow of the Beast combines platform and action elements, with the introduction of combos. Players have to defeat enemies. This can be achieved by counter-attacking to strike them down; shield-wielding foes  must be ducked behind in order to defeat them. It features a traditional health bar, combos through quick time events, traps, and puzzles. The game features the parallax scrolling from the original title, using some 3D elements.

Shadow of the Colossus	The gameplay is nearly identical to the original version of the game, aside from reworked controls.  Progression through Shadow of the Colossus occurs in cycles. Beginning at a central point in a landscape, the player seeks out and defeats a colossus, and is returned to the central point to repeat the process. Most colossi are located in remote areas, such as atop cliffs or within ancient structures.

Shadow of the Tomb Raider	Shadow of the Tomb Raider is a 2018 action-adventure game developed by Eidos-Montral and published by Square Enix's European subsidiary. The game is the sequel to Rise of the Tomb Raider and is the twelfth mainline entry in the Tomb Raider series, as well as the third and final entry of the Survivor trilogy. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in September 2018. Versions for Linux and macOS, and Stadia, were released in November 2019. After release, the game was expanded upon with downloadable content in both a season pass and as standalone releases.

Shadow Tactics: Blades of the Shogun	Shadow Tactics: Blades of the Shogun is a stealth-oriented real-time tactics video game developed by Mimimi Productions and published by Daedalic Entertainment. The gameplay is similar to that of the Commandos and Desperados series. It was released on December 6, 2016, for Microsoft Windows, macOS and Linux, in July 2017 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and for Amazon Luna on October 20, 2020.

Shadow Warrior	Shadow Warrior is a 2013 first-person shooter game developed by Flying Wild Hog and published by Devolver Digital. The game is a reboot of the 1997 original of the same name, developed by 3D Realms and published by GT Interactive, licensed out by Devolver Digital. It features the same character Lo Wang and a modern era setting with Asian mythology elements, all of which were redesigned with modern, full 3D graphics and new gameplay features, while also being a throwback to classic first-person shooters. 

Shadow Warrior 2	Shadow Warrior 2 is a 2016 first-person shooter game developed by Flying Wild Hog and published by Devolver Digital. The game is the sequel to 2013's Shadow Warrior, the reboot of the 1997 original. It was released for Windows in October 2016, and for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in May 2017. It received generally positive reviews from critics. A sequel, Shadow Warrior 3, was released in March 2022.

Shadow Warrior 3	Like its predecessors, the game is a first-person shooter and the player assumes control of Lo Wang, the series protagonist. In the game, Lo Wang has access to a large arsenal of firearms which can be used to defeat enemies. In addition, he also wields a katana, which is limited to close-quarters combat. At close range, players can execute wounded enemies. They can also use the environment to their advantage. As the player progresses in the game, they receive new weapons and gadgets which aid them in combat, all of which are meant to be unlocked and available by the time the player reaches the mid-point of the campaign. The game features more linear levels and a more streamlined upgrade system when compared with Shadow Warrior 2, though it introduced new movement options for Lo Wang, such as giving him the option to wall run, double jump, air dash, and utilize a grappling hook to quickly transverse between platforms and vertical surfaces.

Shady Part of Me	Shady Part of Me received "generally favorable" reviews according to review aggregator Metacritic.

Shakedown: Hawaii	Decades after founding Hawaii-based conglomerate Feeble Multinational and writing a best-selling business advice book, the aging and out-of-touch CEO of Feeble learns that his company is on the verge of bankruptcy, with online shopping, video streaming, and vehicle for hire mobile apps sapping Feeble's profits from its retail stores, VHS rentals, and taxi services. The CEO, together with his unemployed adult son Scooter and a henchman known only as "The Consultant", band together to rebuild Feeble into a corporate empire. Their arsenal of unscrupulous tactics includes violating consumer protection standards, razing buildings to make way for redevelopment, competing on a dangerous game show, destroying package delivery trucks, raiding a drug cartel, and shaking down other businesses. A subplot centers around the CEO's son Scooter as he joins a gang and performs tasks for the gang's leader, Tad.

Shantae	Shantae is a platform video game developed by WayForward and published by Capcom for the Game Boy Color in 2002. It is the first title in the Shantae series. The game follows the adventures of the eponymous half-genie Shantae, who must travel across Sequin Land, the setting of the series, to foil the domination plans of the evil lady pirate Risky Boots. During her quest, she learns various dances and acquires items which make her progressively stronger as well as unlocking new abilities and locations, leading her to ultimately face off against Risky in her hideout.

Shantae: Half-Genie Hero	The game was funded via Kickstarter, and although the campaign ended in October 2013, WayForward still accepted donations via PayPal on its website up to December 2014, raising over US$900,000.

Shantae: Risky's Revenge	The game was originally released for DSi in October 2010. An iOS port was released on October 27, 2011, featuring a new Magic Mode. An enhanced version, Shantae: Risky's Revenge - Director's Cut, was released for Microsoft Windows in June 2014, PlayStation 4 in June 2015, Wii U in March 2016, Nintendo Switch and Xbox One in October 2020, Amazon Luna in January 2021, Stadia in February 2021, and PlayStation 5 in October 2021.

Shantae Advance: Risky Revolution	The game began development for the Game Boy Advance in 2002, and was planned as the second game in the series, but was cancelled in 2004 due to WayForward being unable to find a publisher for it. In 2023, WayForward announced that development had resumed, and that Limited Run Games would be physically publishing the game for GBA in 2024. Ports of the game for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, and Windows are also in development.

Shantae and the Pirate's Curse	The title features a new soundtrack by Jake Kaufman. Met with generally favorable reviews, the game was a commercial success, making the Top 10 of the Club Nintendo 2014 survey of the fans' favorite games and being a nominee for best 3DS game and best platformer by IGN.

Shantae and the Seven Sirens	Seven Sirens returns to the metroidvania style of the first three entries in the series, and follows the half-genie Shantae as she explores an interconnected world. During her journey, Shantae visits towns with non-player characters to interact with, and traverses dungeon-style labyrinths containing new abilities to unlock and bosses to defeat. Shantae retains her ability to transform into other creatures, now utilized via an ability called "fusion magic" that allows her to instantly transform and use a creature's ability with a button press instead of having to select it like in past games, functioning similarly to the Pirate Gear in Pirate's Curse. Additional special abilities can be performed by dancing, such as revealing hidden objects or healing wilted plants. Defeated enemies will sometimes drop collectible Monster Cards bearing their image. By finding a certain number of a given card, Shantae can equip it to augment her abilities, providing bonuses such as increased movement speed or magic automatically refilling over time. Up to three cards can be equipped at once, with a total of 50 different cards to collect. Like other games in the series, completing the story awards the player with bonus artwork based on their final time and completion percentage. A New Game Plus mode allows the player to replay the game with higher magic but lower defense.

Shaq Fu: A Legend Reborn	A Legend Reborn features gameplay that heavily differs from its predecessor, more akin to a beat 'em up. The player character has a variety of moves, such as rolling and dashing, which stuns enemies. Players can also chain attacks together and use a special attack.

Shattered  Tale of the Forgotten King	After the disappearance of their king, a civilization falls to ruin. Shattered  Tale of the Forgotten King is a Soulslike, an action role-playing video game subgenre that focuses on exploration, careful timing in combat, and boss fights.  These are presented from a first-person persective.  It also includes elements of platform games, which are presented in 2.5D.

Sheltered	Sheltered is a post-apocalyptic survival game developed by Unicube. Team17 published it on March 17, 2016, for Linux, Microsoft Windows, OS X, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Android, iOS, and Nintendo Switch. Players control a family that survives a nuclear war by taking refuge in an abandoned underground war shelter that they found.  As their supplies run low, the family must scrounge above ground.

ShellShock Live	Players control tanks in a 2D landscape. They aim and shoot the enemy tanks to defeat them with their own in team or free-for-all matches. Shots can be fired after maneuvering its trajectory by adjusting its angle by 360 and power by 0-100. Up to 8 players can play in a match. There are nine game modes and more than 400 weapons that can be obtained by leveling up, completing challenges, or bought in the shop. The game also offers stat and cosmetic upgrades for player tanks and its maps.

Shenmue I & II	Shenmue is a 1999 action-adventure game developed and published by Sega for the Dreamcast. It follows the teenage martial artist Ryo Hazuki as he sets out in revenge for the murder of his father in 1980s Yokosuka, Japan. The player explores an open world, fighting opponents in brawler battles and encountering quick time events. The environmental detail was considered unprecedented, with numerous interactive objects, a day-and-night system, variable weather effects, non-player characters with daily schedules and various minigames.

Shenmue III	Shenmue III is a 2019 action-adventure game developed by Ys Net, published by Deep Silver for PlayStation 4 and Windows and produced by Shibuya Productions. Like the previous Shenmue games, it consists of open-world environments interspersed with brawler battles and quick time events, with a day-and-night system, variable weather effects, non-player characters with daily schedules, and various minigames. The story continues the quest of the teenage martial artist Ryo Hazuki, who searches for his father's killer in the mountains of 1980s Guilin, China.

Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened	Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on April 11, 2023. The game received generally positive reviews upon release.

Sherlock Holmes: Chapter One	Sherlock Holmes Chapter One is an action-adventure mystery video game in the Sherlock Holmes series developed by Frogwares. It is also the first game in the series to be self-published by Frogwares itself. Described as an "origin story", the game follows a young Sherlock Holmes as he investigates a mystery in his family's home on the Mediterranean island of Cordona after his mother's death. It is the first open world title in the series.

Sherlock Holmes: Crimes & Punishments	Sherlock Holmes: Crimes & Punishments is an adventure mystery video game in the Sherlock Holmes series developed by Frogwares in 2014 and distributed by Focus Home Interactive from 2014 to 2019 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, and Xbox One. Frogwares regained the publishing rights to the title on Steam and the game reappeared on other platforms in the start of 2020. A Nintendo Switch version was released on February 3, 2022.

Sherlock Holmes: The Devil's Daughter	Like its predecessor Sherlock Holmes: Crimes & Punishments, the majority of the game involves exploring crime scenes and examining clues. Once discovered, clues are added to a "deduction board", a gameplay mechanic which involves linking pieces of information together, leading to possibilities for different deductions. Once deductions are connected together, the player will have a full tree of deductions in the player's memory called mind palace. Depending on how players interpret the clues, they will arrive at different conclusions. Thus, the player can fail or succeed in finding the culprit.

Shin Megami Tensei III: Nocturne HD Remaster	Shin Megami Tensei III: Nocturne is a role-playing video game developed by Atlus for the PlayStation 2. It was published by Atlus in Japan and North America, and by Ghostlight in Europe. It is the third numbered entry in the Shin Megami Tensei series, the central series in the Megami Tensei franchise. Multiple versions of the game have been published: the original version was published in Japan by Atlus in 2003, while a director's cut was released in 2004 in Japan. The director's cut was localized and released in North America in 2004 as Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturne and in PAL regions in 2005 as Shin Megami Tensei: Lucifer's Call. A high-definition remaster was released for the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 in Japan in 2020, and was internationally released in 2021 on those consoles and Windows.

Shiness: The Lightning Kingdom	Focus Entertainment (formerly Focus Home Interactive) is a French video game developer and publisher based in Paris, France. Founded in 1996, Focus has published and distributed original titles such as Sherlock Holmes, TrackMania, Runaway, and sports games like Cycling Manager and Virtual Skipper.

Shining Resonance Refrain	Various staff members returned from previous Shining titles, including character designer Tony Taka and music composers from the group Elements Garden. Upon its worldwide launch, Shining Resonance Refrain received mixed reviews from critics, who generally found the game likeable and praised its combat system, but criticized some aspects of its presentation and lack of originality.

Shovel Knight	Shovel Knight is a platform video game developed and published by Yacht Club Games. Development was crowdfunded and the game was released for Nintendo 3DS, Wii U, and Windows in June 2014. It was ported to OS X and Linux in September 2014, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Xbox One in April 2015, Amazon Fire TV in September 2015, and Nintendo Switch in March 2017. Shovel Knight is inspired by gameplay and graphics of platformer games developed for the Nintendo Entertainment System.

Siegecraft Commander	There are currently 3342 games across both lists.

Sifu	Sifu is a 2022 beat 'em up game developed and published by Sloclap. Set in modern-day China, players control the child of a martial arts school's sifu (master) who seeks revenge on those responsible for their father's death. Every time the protagonist dies, they are resurrected by a magical talisman and age up, gaining access to more powerful attacks but reducing their health. When the player character becomes too old, they can die permanently, in which case players must restart the level from the beginning and from the same age as their initial attempt.

Silence: The Whispered World 2	Silence is controlled via a point-and-click interface.

The Silver Case	The setting is contemporary Japan in the year 1999, in a universe which would be used by Suda in later works. Within a city referred to as the 24 Districts, a series of bizarre murders occurs, prompting the 24 Districts Police Department to send two detectives from their Heinous Crimes Unit to solve the case. The killings are soon linked to Kamui Uehara, a notorious serial killer who supposedly died several years before. The gameplay revolves around text-based situations, point-and-click mechanics, and interactive question and answer segments.

The Sims 4	The Sims 4 is a free-to-play social simulation game developed by Maxis and published by Electronic Arts. It is the fourth major title in The Sims series, following The Sims 3 (2009). The game was released in North America on September 2, 2014, for Windows, an OS X version was released in February 2015, and PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions were released in November 2017. The game was moved to a free-to-play model on October 18, 2022, monetized by the purchase of various paid downloadable content packs that have been developed since its release.

Sine Mora EX	The game was well received by critics. Critics found the story confusing, but praised the overall gameplay. Specifically the shoot 'em up mechanic, time-based mechanic and boss battles received high marks. Reviewers also lauded the game's visuals.

SingStar Celebration	SingStar is a competitive music video game series for PlayStation consoles, developed by London Studio and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. Dozens of installments were released for the PlayStation 2, and several more for the PlayStation 3. It is also available on the PlayStation 4 as a free app download, with users paying for the songs as individual or bundle downloads. The games have also undergone a number of non-English releases in various European countries.

The Sinking City	The Sinking City was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in June 2019, for Nintendo Switch in September 2019, for PlayStation 5 in February 2021 and for Xbox Series X and Series S in April 2021.

Sinner: Sacrifice for Redemption	Sinner: Sacrifice for Redemption  is an action role-playing game developed by indie studio Dark Star and published by Another Indie. It was released on October 18, 2018, for Windows, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch and Xbox One. The game forces the player to fight bosses representing the seven deadly sins one after another, while removing one of the player's abilities for every fight. It received mixed reviews from critics, who cited its mechanics as a strong point but criticized its environments, music and story.

Skull & Bones	Skull and Bones is a 2024 action-adventure game developed by Ubisoft Singapore and published by Ubisoft. The game revolves around piracy and naval warfare with a fantastical setting in East Africa and Southeast Asia during the late 17th century, the peak of the historical Golden Age of Piracy. It was released for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on February 16, 2024, after multiple delays and developmental difficulties, to negative reviews.

Skullgirls: 2nd Encore	Skullgirls is a 2D fighting game developed by Reverge Labs and published by Autumn Games. In Skullgirls, players fight each other with teams of one, two, or three characters, attempting to knock out their opponents or have the most cumulative health when time runs out. The setting of the game revolves around the "Skull Heart", an artifact which grants wishes for women. If a wisher with an impure soul uses the Skull Heart, she is transformed into a monster known as the "Skullgirl". The game was released through the PlayStation Network and Xbox Live Arcade in April 2012, and received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised the animation and gameplay mechanics, while criticizing its initial roster size and online multiplayer features.

Skulls of the Shogun: Bone-A-Fide Edition	In July 2013, 17-Bit released Skulls of the Shogun: Bone-A-Fide Edition on Steam for Windows XP (SP 3) and up, with 4 new campaign levels, a new character, new multiplayer levels and progression system, and developer's commentary. In May 2014, Skulls of the Shogun was released for OS X and Linux as part of a Humble Bundle. In October 2014, the game was released on Ouya. In June 2015, the Bone-a-Fide Edition was released on PlayStation 4. On July 11, 2019, a Nintendo Switch port was released.

Sky: Children of the Light	Sky: Children of the Light (shortened to Sky in-game) is a social adventure game by thatgamecompany. It was first released for iOS on July 18, 2019. An Android version was later released on April 7, 2020, and a Nintendo Switch version was released on June 29, 2021, followed by a PlayStation 4 release on December 6, 2022. A separate version of the game was released for Mainland China on Android devices that is co-developed and published by NetEase.

Sky Force Anniversary	The original Sky Force has you fighting the evil General Mantis, who seeks to rain havoc upon the world in his Night Owl. You must defeat his various ships, planes, helicopters and tanks.

Sky Force Reloaded	The original Sky Force has you fighting the evil General Mantis, who seeks to rain havoc upon the world in his Night Owl. You must defeat his various ships, planes, helicopters and tanks.

Skylanders: Imaginators	In the past, the Ancients used Mind Magic to create anything they could imagine. However, one of the Ancients, known as Brain, tried to use Mind Magic to brainwash all of Skylands, so the Ancients sealed him away along with the power of Mind Magic to prevent evil from using it.

Skylanders: SuperChargers	Like its predecessors, Skylanders: SuperChargers is a "toy-to-life" video game in which players place toy figurines on the "Portal of Power", allowing them to play as the represented character in-game. The game introduces a redesigned "Portal of Power" with a larger and wider surface to accommodate vehicles, which are larger than typical characters. SuperChargers introduces vehicles, which are divided into three classes; land, sea, and sky. Ground vehicles and water vehicles allow players to race on land or underwater on several different tracks, while the sky vehicles can be accelerated and decelerated and feature an "autopilot system" that can automatically guide players to their destination.

Skylanders: Swap Force	It is the first Skylanders game to be released in North America before other regions, unlike the previous two games where Australia got the installments first. It is also the first Skylanders game not to be owned by Vivendi.

Skylanders: Trap Team	Skylanders: Trap Team utilizes a near-field communication reader platform, called the Traptanium Portal, that reads NFC chips located on the bottom of figurines. The figurines are then used in-game as playable characters. It introduces a new group of Skylanders called the "Trap Masters", who work with the Portal Master to capture the criminals that Kaos has released from Cloudcracker Prison, which holds the most feared villains of Skylands.

Slain: Back from Hell	Slain! was developed by Wolf Brew Games. The game was initially scheduled to be released in late 2015, but was delayed to 24 March 2016. Due to the negative reception of Slain!, the game was overhauled and relaunched as Slain: Back from Hell on 2 August 2016. It was released on the Nintendo Switch, in North America and Europe on December 7, 2017, and in Japan on March 1, 2018.

Slayaway Camp: Butcher's Cut	Blue Wizard Digital is a Canadian video game development studio and game publisher founded in 2014 by Jason Kapalka, one of the founders of PopCap Games and an early pioneer in the mobile casual gaming space. It is based in the Comox Valley, British Columbia, and is the only video game studio currently headquartered in Comox, as The Long Dark studio Hinterland is now based in Vancouver.

Slay the Spire	In Slay the Spire, the player, through one of four characters, attempts to ascend a spire of multiple floors, created through procedural generation, battling through enemies and bosses. Combat takes place through a collectible card game-based system, with the player gaining new cards as rewards from combat and other means, requiring the player to use strategies of deck-building games to construct an effective deck to complete the climb.

Sleeping Dogs: Definitive Edition	Sleeping Dogs is a 2012 action-adventure video game developed by United Front Games and published by Square Enix. It was released for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Windows. Set in contemporary Hong Kong, the story follows martial artist and undercover police officer Wei Shen who infiltrates the Sun On Yee Triad organization. Gameplay focuses on Wei Shen's martial arts moves, fighting, shooting and parkour abilities, and on gadgets that can be used for combat and exploration. Players must complete missions to unlock content and continue the story, but they may instead freely roam the game's open world environment and engage in both legal and criminal activities. The latter may incite a police response, the intensity of which is controlled by a "heat" system. Actions such as fighting, driving and racing grant Shen statistical rewards and earn the player achievements.

Slender: The Arrival	Slender: The Arrival is a first-person survival horror video game developed by Blue Isle Studios among Parsec Productions as a fully realized, commercial version to Parsec's Slender: The Eight Pages, with Chapter 9 being a remake of the aforementioned game. The game is based on the Slender Man creepypasta created by Eric Knudsen, who served as a producer. It was released on Microsoft Windows and OS X on March 26, 2013. Thereafter, the game was released on Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 in September 2014. It was released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in March 2015, before shipping onto Wii U in October. A Nintendo Switch port was released in June 2019. In October 2021, ports for Android and iOS were released.

Slime Rancher	Slime Rancher is a first-person life simulation adventure video game developed and published by American indie studio Monomi Park. The game was released as an early access title in January 2016, with an official release on Windows, macOS, Linux and Xbox One on August 1, 2017. A PlayStation 4 version was released on August 21, 2018, and a Nintendo Switch version was released on August 11, 2021. A DLC named 'Slime Rancher: Secret Style Pack' was released on June 18, 2019 which added additional cosmetic appearances. A sequel, Slime Rancher 2, was released in early access on September 22, 2022, for Windows and Xbox Series X/S. A feature film adaptation is also in development.

Small Radios Big Televisions	The game started as a free web-based prototype using WebGL and JavaScript. When the prototype attracted significant interest, Owen decided to turn it into a stand-alone game.

The Smurfs: Mission Vileaf	On May 15, 2020 Microids announced a publishing deal with IMPS, the current worldwide licensors for The Smurfs, to make a new 3D game based on the franchise developed by OSome Studio. It was officially revealed on April 8, 2021 as The Smurfs: Mission Vileaf, and would be the first in an agreement to publish a series of Smurfs games over the next five years.

Snake Pass	Snake Pass is a puzzle-platform game developed and published by Sumo Digital for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. Players play as a snake traversing floating islands in themed levels. Despite being a platform game, the player cannot jump and has to move similar to a real snake. The game was released in North America, Europe, and Australia in March 2017.

Sniper Ghost Warrior 3	Sniper Ghost Warrior 3 is a tactical shooter video game developed and published by CI Games for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and was released worldwide on 25 April 2017. It is the fourth entry in the Sniper: Ghost Warrior series and is the sequel to Sniper: Ghost Warrior 2, and is also the first game in the series to feature an open world environment. The game received average reviews upon release.

Sniper Ghost Warrior Contracts	Sniper Ghost Warrior Contracts is a tactical shooter stealth video game developed and published by CI Games. It is the fifth entry of the Sniper: Ghost Warrior series and is the sequel to Sniper Ghost Warrior 3. The game was released worldwide on 22 November 2019 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It received fairly positive reviews from critics, with some reviewers calling it an improvement over its predecessors. A sequel, titled Sniper Ghost Warrior Contracts 2, was released on 4 June 2021.

Sniper Ghost Warrior Contracts 2	Sniper Ghost Warrior Contracts 2 is a 2021 tactical shooter stealth video game developed and published by CI Games. It is the sixth entry in the Sniper: Ghost Warrior series and is the sequel to Sniper Ghost Warrior Contracts. The game was released on 4 June 2021 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S. A version for PlayStation 5 was released on 24 August 2021.

Sniper Elite V2 Remastered	Sniper Elite V2 is a 2012 third-person tactical shooter stealth video game developed and published by Rebellion Developments. It is the sequel to its 2005 predecessor Sniper Elite, which takes place in the same timeframe and locationthe Battle of Berlin in AprilMay 1945but with an altered narrative. The game's story follows an American OSS officer who must eliminate a group of scientists involved in the German V-2 rocket program before the Red Army captures them. Another sequel named Sniper Elite III was released in 2014. A remastered version for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One was released on May 14, 2019.

Sniper Elite III	Sniper Elite III is a 2014 third-person tactical shooter stealth video game developed and published by Rebellion Developments. The game is a prequel to its 2012 predecessor Sniper Elite V2, and is the third installment in the Sniper Elite series. A direct sequel, Sniper Elite 4, was released in 2017.

Sniper Elite 4	Sniper Elite 4 is a 2017 third-person tactical shooter stealth video game developed and published by Rebellion Developments. The sequel to Sniper Elite III, the game was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on 14 February 2017 and for Stadia on 1 November 2020. A Nintendo Switch port of the game was released on 17 November 2020. A sequel, Sniper Elite 5, was released on 26 May 2022.

SNK 40th Anniversary Collection	SNK 40th Anniversary Collection is a video game compilation developed by Digital Eclipse consisting of arcade and console games published by SNK between 1979 and 1990. The collection was released for the Nintendo Switch in 2018, and later in 2019 for PlayStation 4 on March 19, Xbox One on May 3, and Steam on July 7.

Snooker 19	Snooker 19 is a 2019 sports video game developed by Lab42 and published by Ripstone Games, based on the cue sport snooker. The game was released  on 17 April 2019 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, with the Nintendo Switch version coming out on 23 August 2019. All 128 players from the World Snooker Tour appear in the game, as do venues from all 26 tournaments, including Alexandra Palace and the Crucible Theatre.

Snow Moto Racing Freedom	Aqua Moto Racing 2 has a Metacritic score of 85% based on 6 critic reviews.

SnowRunner	SnowRunner is an off-roading open world simulation video game where the player's job is to deliver cargo, completing construction projects and/or repairs at different locations while driving over rough terrain. The game has a damage system in which there is both damage on the physical model and damage shown through the user interface (UI). Each of the game regions is set after a disaster has taken place, whether natural like a flood or manmade, such as a pipeline breaking. Every location is in a rural region in either North America or Russia. As the player progresses by doing certain missions, they earn money which can be spent on either upgrades for their current vehicles or better vehicles altogether. Both of these usually make it easier for the player to traverse the game's terrain. Along the way the player encounters optional timed missions in which the rewards for completion get better the faster the player completes them. Each region has its own story associated with it, usually involving the player fixing the damage caused by the disaster that occurred in the region.

Sociable Soccer	Jon "Jops" Hare (born 20 January 1966, Ilford, Essex, England) is an English computer game designer, video game artist, musician and one of many founder members of the early UK games industry as co-founder and director, along with Chris Yates, of Sensible Software, one of the most successful European games development companies of the late 1980s and 1990s.

Solar Ash	Solar Ash is an adventure platforming game. The player controls the main character Rei, a Voidrunner within a black hole known as the Ultravoid, through a bright-neon colored, three-dimensional landscape, avoiding obstacles and attacking enemies with energy slashes and a phase-shifted and hard light sword, as Rei tries to save her planet. The game's focus is less about combat and more on movement, as lead developer Alx Preston stated "We're traversal first. That was kind of the vision of the game: Control the traversal, the environments that you're moving through, and the spectacle of it all. Especially the scale on the grandiosity of it just feeling impossibly large and you're feeling really tiny and insignificant in as many ways as possible. The traversal absolutely takes precedence and the combat is kind of intermingled with that traversal."

Soldam: Drop, Connect, Erase	The player can erase falling fruit plums from the horizontal row with the same color. It incorporates the element of the board game reversi and changes the color when touched.

Sol Cresta	Sol Cresta is a vertical-scrolling shooter video game. Assuming the role of three different starships  the Amaterasu, Tsukuyomi, and Susano  the player is tasked with completing seven stages by shooting them whilst having to avoiding collision with them and their incoming projectiles. Each stage is broken up into several subsections lasting five minutes each. The player starts with a single starship and collects the other two as power-ups, at which point a standard formation of three is formed. Shields and coins are the two other power-ups and grant the player extra hit points. The game utilizes a "free-form docking system", in which the three starships can utilize various attacks depending on their formation. The red starship shoots red lasers that take down larger waves of weaker enemies; the blue one shoots missiles that home in on targets; the yellow one fires a drill-like projectile in a straight line, dealing an increased amount of damage. All three ships are also capable of using a charged shot that builds as enemies are taken down. Docking, splitting, and reforming the three ships is central to clearing the stages in the game. The player can also fire backward, to the side, or burst in a 360-degree fashion. The player is to pick up formation-enabling chips and fly through color-coded hoops that provide bonuses depending on which ship is leading. They must also avoid collision with blockades, retractable doors, immovable walls, and spikes. The game has five difficulty levels in arcade mode.

Sol Divide	The collection was released on February 24, 2005 for the PlayStation 2. It was released for Nintendo Switch on March 22, 2018.

Sldner-X 2: Final Prototype	Sldner-X is a traditional 2D shoot 'em up game with parallax scrolling, 720p high-definition graphics, weather effects and a rich weapon upgrade system.

The Solus Project	The Solus Project is a first-person single-player survival video game developed by Teotl Studios and Grip Games. An early access version of the game was released on Steam, Xbox One and GOG in February 2016, and the full version of the game was released on June 7, 2016 on PC and July 15, 2016 for Xbox One . The game is a spiritual successor to previous Teotl title, The Ball.

Soma	Soma (stylized as SOMA) is a survival horror video game developed and published by Frictional Games. The game was released on 22 September 2015 for Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux, and PlayStation 4, and on 1 December 2017 on Xbox One.

Someday You'll Return	On March 7, 2023, the game was released in an enhanced version Someday You'll Return: Director's Cut on the PS4 and PS5 game consoles, the update is free for game owners on PC, subtitles have also been added for Spanish, French, Portuguese, German, Italian, Japanese and Chinese language.

Songbringer	Songbringer is an action role-playing game played from a top-down perspective.

Song of the Deep	Song of the Deep has the player control Merryn, a 12-year-old girl who loves her father, a fisherman, especially when he tells her tall tales of his adventures. When her father goes missing at sea one day, she has a vision of him being trapped at the depths of the ocean. Determined to find him, she crafts a submarine and gear to explore the ocean, and is startled to see that many of her father's tales were actually true.

Sonic Colors: Ultimate	Sonic Colors (known as Sonic Colours in the PAL region) is a 2010 platform game published by Sega. It follows Sonic's quest to stop his nemesis Doctor Eggman from enslaving an alien race and taking over the world. The gameplay is similar to prior Sonic games, with players collecting rings and defeating enemies; the camera perspective often switches from third-person to side-scrolling perspectives. The game also introduces Wisps, power-ups the player can use to increase attack power and reach new areas.

Sonic Forces	Sonic Forces is a 2017 platform game developed by Sonic Team and published by Sega. It was produced in commemoration of the 25th anniversary of the Sonic the Hedgehog franchise. The plot focuses on Sonic the Hedgehog joining a resistance movement formed by his friends, alongside its rookie and his misplaced past self. Together, they must stop Doctor Eggman, who has conquered most of the world alongside Infinite, his newest lackey who has been empowered by the Phantom Ruby. It features three gameplay modes: "Classic", side-scrolling gameplay similar to the original Sega Genesis Sonic games; "Modern", 3D gameplay similar to Sonic Unleashed (2008) and Sonic Colors (2010); and a mode featuring the "Avatar", the player's custom character.

Sonic Frontiers	Sonic Frontiers is a 2022 platform game developed by Sonic Team and published by Sega. As Sonic, the player explores the Starfall Islands to collect the Chaos Emeralds, after Sonic and his friends are separated when falling through a wormhole. Frontiers integrates traditional Sonic the Hedgehog elementssuch as platforming, rings, and grind railsinto the series' first open world. While exploring the open world, players can complete challenges, fight robotic enemies, and access "Cyber Space" levels inspired by previous Sonic games.

Sonic Mania	Sonic Mania is a 2017 platform game published by Sega for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Windows. Produced in commemoration of the Sonic the Hedgehog series' 25th anniversary, Sonic Mania pays homage to the original Sega Genesis Sonic games, featuring speedy side-scrolling gameplay. It takes place over 13 levels, including several redesigned from past games. The story follows Sonic, Tails and Knuckles as they venture to defeat their nemesis Doctor Eggman and his robotic henchmen, the Hard-Boiled Heavies.

Sonic Mania Plus	Sonic Mania is a 2017 platform game published by Sega for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Windows. Produced in commemoration of the Sonic the Hedgehog series' 25th anniversary, Sonic Mania pays homage to the original Sega Genesis Sonic games, featuring speedy side-scrolling gameplay. It takes place over 13 levels, including several redesigned from past games. The story follows Sonic, Tails and Knuckles as they venture to defeat their nemesis Doctor Eggman and his robotic henchmen, the Hard-Boiled Heavies.

Sonic Origins	Origins was conceived following the release of the 2020 Sonic film, due to the influx of new fans, Sonic Team head Takashi Iizuka wanted to make the older Sonic games available on modern hardware. The remasters of Sonic the Hedgehog, Sonic 2, and Sonic CD are based on the Retro Engine-developed remakes released between 2011 and 2013, while Simon Thomley and his studio Headcannon, who worked on Sonic Mania (2017), developed the remaster of Sonic 3 & Knuckles. Jun Senoue replaced a portion of the Sonic 3 soundtrack, following speculation of licensing problems arising from Michael Jackson's involvement with Sonic 3.

Sorcer Striker	Sorcer Striker is a 1993 vertically scrolling shooter arcade video game developed by Raizing (now known as Eighting) and published in 1993 by Able Corporation in Japan and Europe. In the game, players assume the role from one of the four bounty hunters to overthrow the Goblin empire led by King Gobligan and reclaim the bounty placed by King Codwenna of Violent Kingdom over Gobligan's head. It is the first entry in the Mah Daisakusen trilogy, which includes Kingdom Grand Prix and Dimahoo, and the first video game to be created by Raizing.

Soul Axiom	In Soul Axiom, the player plays an unknown protagonist, utilizing a first person camera as they wander through strange landscapes of unknown memories. The player will experience traditional adventure/puzzle gameplay, by interacting with physical puzzles, making psychological decisions and exploring the environment to find the right information to unlock the story of your character. The player is slowly granted abilities in the form of a hand power system which enables them manipulate the objects and environments around them, which will allow them to navigate through the world of Elysia. These abilities also further complicate the puzzles that the player is given.

Soulcalibur VI	Soulcalibur VI is a 2018 fighting video game developed by Bandai Namco Studios and Dimps and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. It is the seventh main installment and reboot in the Soulcalibur series. It released for the PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on October 19, 2018.

Soul Hackers 2	Soul Hackers 2 is a 2022 role-playing video game developed by Atlus. It was published by Atlus in Japan and by Sega worldwide for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. The game is the fifth installment in the Devil Summoner series, itself a part of the larger Megami Tensei franchise, and a sequel to Devil Summoner: Soul Hackers (1997). The plot follows Ringo and Figue, manifested agents of the artificial intelligence Aion, as they seek and recruit people from rival groups of Devil Summoners who are key to preventing an approaching apocalypse. Gameplay has Ringo and her party exploring dungeon environments within a futuristic city, and fighting enemies in turn-based combat.

Soul Saga: Episode 1	Soul Saga is in early access and frequently making major changes to gameplay elements.  It currently has a focus on 3D airship exploration, turn based combat, and minor placeholder story elements.  There are plans to add more as development continues.

Sound Shapes	Sound Shapes is a 2012 music platform video game developed by Queasy Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita. It was originally released in 2012 and a port for the PlayStation 4 was released in 2013. The game, designed by Jessica Mak and Shaw-Han Liem, is a side-scrolling platform game with a musical focus. The game also features the ability to create levels and share levels with other users. The Vita version of the game features use of the touch screen and back touch pad to place sounds of different musical instruments during creation of levels. Sound Shapes was shown at industry conference E3 in 2011 and picked up nominations for best of show award from media sites including IGN, 1UP, and Electric Playground. It also received 2 Game Critics Awards (Best Mobile and Best Casual), and received three nominations at the 16th Annual D.I.C.E. Awards.

South Park: The Fractured but Whole	South Park: The Fractured but Whole is a 2017 role-playing video game developed by Ubisoft San Francisco and published by Ubisoft in collaboration with South Park Digital Studios. Based on the American animated sitcom South Park, it is the sequel to the 2014 video game South Park: The Stick of Truth. The game's narrative occurs one day after the events of its predecessor; it follows the New Kid, who has recently moved to South Park and becomes involved in an epic roleplay involving two rival superhero factions vying to create their own superhero media franchises. The superheroes' game unintentionally uncovers a conspiracy to raise crime in the town, bringing them into conflict with supervillains, genetically engineered monsters, the police, crime families, and the new kingpin of crime.

South Park: The Stick of Truth	South Park: The Stick of Truth is a 2014 role-playing video game developed by Obsidian Entertainment in collaboration with South Park Digital Studios and published by Ubisoft. Based on the American animated television series South Park, the game follows the New Kid, who has moved to the eponymous town and becomes involved in an epic role-play fantasy war involving humans, wizards, and elves, who are fighting for control of the all-powerful Stick of Truth. Their game quickly escalates out of control, bringing them into conflict with aliens, Nazi zombies, and gnomes, threatening the entire town with destruction.

Spacebase Startopia	Startopia was shortlisted for BAFTA PC Game of the Year in 2001.

Space Crew	The player gives commands to their crew to take them through a campaign of missions set in the solar system and beyond. New upgrades and equipment become unlocked, and crew members can gain new skills as the game progresses. The Space Crew: Legendary Edition update adds new gameplay features, including missions where the player's crew leave the ship to explore outposts featuring enemies and puzzles.

Space Hulk: Ascension	Space Hulk: Ascension (also known as Space Hulk: Ascension Edition) is a turn-based tactics video game developed and published by Full Control. It is set in the fictional universe of Warhammer 40,000, and is specifically an adaptation of the board game Space Hulk by Games Workshop. It is a follow-up to Full Control's 2013 Space Hulk.

Space Hulk: Deathwing	Space Hulk: Deathwing is a first-person shooter developed by Streum On Studio with assistance from Cyanide and published by Focus Home Interactive. The game is set in the Warhammer 40,000 universe and based upon the turn-based strategy tabletop miniatures board game Space Hulk. It expands the gameplay environment, beyond the narrow maze-like corridors of the original board game and earlier video games, to include massive space ship interiors such as a cathedral. The story is co-written by Gav Thorpe, a longtime Games Workshop author and games designer. The game was released on December 14, 2016, while the console version was released on March 28, 2018.

Space Hulk: Tactics	Space Hulk: Tactics is a turn-based tactics video game developed by Cyanide and published by Focus Home Interactive. The game is set in the Warhammer 40,000 universe and is based upon the turn-based strategy tabletop miniatures board game Space Hulk. The game was released on 9 October 2018.

Space Invaders Forever	The game was available as a regular edition and special edition, with the regular edition containing three less games than the special edition. The Special Edition, in addition to containing additional games, was initially only sold bundled with various premium physical collectible items. Also available for a limited time was a special Amazon Japan Prime Day exclusive pre-order bonus DLC game, the Sega Mega Drive (JPN) game, Space Invaders 90. The Special Edition, containing the complete collection of games, was also released as a limited Famitsu DX Pack version, with different physical bundled items being the only difference. A western release of the complete collection for Nintendo Switch, based on the Japanese Special Edition (but without the "Special Edition" subtitle), distributed by Strictly Limited Games, opened pre-orders on June 28, 2020, available with and without physical collectible items. Orders started arriving in June 2021. A Western budget edition of the collection, entitled Space Invaders Forever, was released in December 2020, for the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4, including only the most recent titles in the compilation. The budget Space Invaders Forever got its first Japanese release (digital only) for Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4, on June 17, 2021. A worldwide digital release of Invincible Collection (subtitled Special Edition in Japan) for Nintendo Switch was announced in 2021, released in Japan on July 29, 2021 (with that region also finally getting a physical retail release without the physical collectible items on that same date). The western digital release was August 17 of that same year.

SpeedRunners	SpeedRunners is a multiplayer side-scrolling racing game developed by DoubleDutch Games and published by tinyBuild. Originally a free web browser game titled SpeedRunner and later an Xbox 360 game by the name SpeedRunner HD on Xbox Live Arcade, SpeedRunners was released on Steam on 26 August 2013 into Steam Early Access, and as a full game on 19 April 2016. SpeedRunners was released on Xbox One in June 2017 as a Games with Gold title. A Nintendo Switch version was released on 23 January 2020. It was recognized as an esport by the Electronic Sports League in July 2015. However, due to decreasing activity the SpeedRunners section was ended on 28 August 2016 when the final community cup was held.

SpellForce 3 Reforced	SpellForce 3 is a 2017 video game developed by Grimlore Games and published by THQ Nordic. It was released for Microsoft Windows on 7 December 2017. SpellForce 3 is the third full and the ninth overall release in the SpellForce video game series. It is the first entry in the series since 2014's SpellForce 2: Demons of the Past. The plot serves as a prequel to the first game (SpellForce: The Order of Dawn), depicting events that lead to the creation of The Circle, the group of mages whose actions were the basis for The Order of Dawn.

Spelunky	The first public release was on December 21, 2008. The source code of the Windows version was released on December 25, 2009. An enhanced version for Xbox Live Arcade was released on July 4, 2012. The enhanced version was later released for Windows and PlayStation 3 in August 2013, and for PlayStation 4 in October 2014. The remake was also made available on Xbox One via backward compatibility in December 2015. A fanmade, ChromeOS version of the original game was made as well, titled Spelunky HTML5. A port for Nintendo Switch was released on August 26, 2021. A sequel, Spelunky 2, was released in September 2020.

Spelunky 2	Like its predecessor, Spelunky 2 is a 2D platform game. In the game, the player assumes control of Ana, the daughter of the explorer from the first game, who visits the Moon in order to find her missing parents. In the game, Ana must navigate deadly caves filled with hostile enemies and traps to collect treasures. When Ana dies, she will have to start from the beginning of the game unless the player unlocked tunnels (shortcuts) and lose all of her items, and the game is rearranged through procedural generation to present new challenges and paths. There are also many other characters that the player can unlock, from wooden coffin-shaped boxes found in each area. Each level also features several layers which can be explored by the player. New areas, such as the lava-themed Volcana, are introduced. The game features a new liquid physics system, in which fluid will flow naturally throughout a level. In addition, the game introduces new monsters, traps, and ridable mounts. The game also supports four-player online multiplayer, with the introduction of both cooperative and competitive multiplayer modes.

Marvel's Spider-Man	Marvel's Spider-Man is a 2018 action-adventure game developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. Based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man, it tells an original narrative that is inspired by the long-running comic book mythology, while also drawing from various adaptations in other media. In the main story, the super-human crime lord Mister Negative orchestrates a plot to seize control of New York City's criminal underworld. When Mister Negative threatens to release a deadly virus, Spider-Man must confront him and protect the city while dealing with the personal problems of his civilian persona, Peter Parker.

Spider-Man: Miles Morales	Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. Based on the Marvel Comics character Miles Morales, it is inspired by both the character's decade-long comic book mythology and appearances in other media. The game is a spin-off and continuation of Marvel's Spider-Man (2018), and the second installment in Insomniac's Spider-Man series. The narrative focuses on Miles' struggle to balance the duties of his civilian persona and his role as the second Spider-Man when his new home, Harlem, is threatened by a war between the Roxxon Energy Corporation and a high-tech criminal army called the Underground, led by the mysterious Tinkerer.

Spider: Rite of the Shrouded Moon	The player takes control of a spider whose primary goal is to survive by spinning webs and eating insects. At the same time, the player can explore the manor, searching for secrets and clues.

Spirit: Lucky's Big Adventure	Spirit Untamed is a 2021 animated adventure film produced by DreamWorks Animation, and Dentsu, and distributed by Universal Pictures. The film was directed by Elaine Bogan and co-directed by Ennio Torresan Jr. (in their feature directorial debuts), from a screenplay written by Aury Wallington and Kristin Hahn, making this the second theatrical film release of the Spirit franchise and is both a spin-off and a stand-alone sequel of the traditionally animated Academy Award nominated Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron (2002) and loosely based on the characters from its Netflix animated spin-off television series Spirit Riding Free, developed by Wallington.

Spiritfarer	Spiritfarer is an indie management sim and sandbox action game developed and published by Canadian studio Thunder Lotus Games and released for Microsoft Windows, macOS, Linux, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, Xbox One, Android and Stadia in August 2020. The main character, Stella, becomes a "Spiritfarer" whose job is to ferry spirits of the deceased to the afterlife.

Spintires: MudRunner	MudRunner is an all-terrain simulation video game which tasks driving through muddy unpaved roads in aging Soviet vehicles with nothing but a map and a compass. The aim of the game is to transport logs to their destination without depleting resources (such as fuel) or damaging the vehicle. There is both a single-player and multiplayer co-op mode that both use the same main six maps (base game), with an addition of 3 American maps and 2 Russian maps along with DLC content. Over the game's time, there have been 4 batches of DLC content added introducing new vehicles (some licensed), new gamelplay maps and challenge maps.  The main game maps often included various off-roading elements such as water bodies and rivers, paved roads, trails and changes in elevation (particularly evident in maps such as Island and Downhill) which enable the player to experience a larger and more accurate simulation of the genre. The map setup is very similar to the previous instalment Spintires in the series as maps contain similar amounts of these elements and naming (e.g. Flood in Spintires and Deluge in Mudrunner). 

Spirit Hunter: Death Mark	The game was directed by Motoya Ataka and produced by Hajime Chikami, with art by Rui Tomono and Fumiya Sumio, and music by Naoaki Jimbo. It was well received by critics.

Spirit Hunter: NG	In the game, the player investigates haunted locations, searching for clues relating to spirits, aiming to purify or destroy the spirit. The investigations are carried out together with partner characters, who the protagonist can form bonds with. The game was directed by Motoya Ataka, produced by Hajime Chikami, and designed by Yuuki Miura and Tomohiro Kokubu, and was developed to contrast with the previous game in the series in terms of its writing and protagonist, with gradually introduced horror and a hot-blooded player character. Critics praised the game for its story, characterization, and visuals, and considered it a good game for fans of Asian horror.

Spirit Hunter: Death Mark II	The story is set in a Tokyo suburb, and sees the player take the role of Kazuo Yashiki, who is hired to infiltrate a school as a teacher to investigate gruesome, spiritual incidents that occur there every ten years. Like previous Spirit Hunter games, it is an adventure game, but it also incorporates elements from tabletop role-playing games. The player investigates areas in a side-view perspective together with a number of partner characters; the choice of partner determines which locations the player has access to. 

Splasher	Splasher is a 2D platform game in which the player controls a purple-haired character who has to go through 22 levels, all of which take place inside of the Inkorp factory and involve the use of the splasher's paint gun. Each of the levels consist of seven of the protagonist's fellow workers to collect, which are known as splashers. Six of the splashers are hidden throughout the levels, while the seventh is at the end of every level and requires 700 'Golden Ink', which is also found throughout the levels.

SpongeBob SquarePants: Battle for Bikini Bottom  Rehydrated	SpongeBob SquarePants: Battle for Bikini Bottom  Rehydrated is a 2020 platform game developed by Purple Lamp Studios and published by THQ Nordic. Based on the Nickelodeon animated series SpongeBob SquarePants, it is a remake of the console versions of Heavy Iron Studios' SpongeBob SquarePants: Battle for Bikini Bottom (2003). It is the first major game in the series since SpongeBob HeroPants (2015) and the first since the death of the show's creator Stephen Hillenburg in 2018. The game was released on June 23, 2020 for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One, and Stadia. A version for mobile devices was released on January 21, 2021. 

SpongeBob SquarePants: The Cosmic Shake	SpongeBob SquarePants: The Cosmic Shake is a 2023 platform game developed by Purple Lamp and published by THQ Nordic. The game is based on the Nickelodeon animated series SpongeBob SquarePants. The player controls SpongeBob, who, along with Patrick, journeys across several alternate realities called "Wish Worlds" to save their friends and the town of Bikini Bottom while collecting Cosmic Jelly for the mermaid fortune teller Madame Kassandra. It was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on January 31, 2023. It was also released for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S on October 23, 2023, iOS on December 12, 2023 and Android on December 21, 2023. 

Sportsfriends	Sportsfriends is a party video game created by the Danish independent developer collective Die Gute Fabrik. It consists of four games: Johann Sebastian Joust, Super Pole Riders, BaraBariBall, and Hokra. Planned for release on the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Windows, Mac, and Linux, the game was funded through Kickstarter and received over US$150,000 from backers.

Spyro Reignited Trilogy	Spyro Reignited Trilogy is a 2018 platform video game compilation developed by Toys for Bob and published by Activision. It includes remasters of the first three games in the Spyro series: Spyro the Dragon (1998), Spyro 2: Ripto's Rage! (1999), and Spyro: Year of the Dragon (2000). Reignited was released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in November 2018, while Nintendo Switch and Windows versions released in September 2019. The collection received positive reviews from critics and has sold over 10 million units as of September 2023.

The Stanley Parable: Ultra Deluxe	The Stanley Parable is a story-based video game designed and written by developers Davey Wreden and William Pugh. The game carries themes such as choice in video games, the relationship between a game creator and player, and predestination/fate. 

Stardew Valley	Stardew Valley is a 2016 farm life sim game developed by Eric "ConcernedApe" Barone. Players take the role of a character who inherits their deceased grandfather's dilapidated farm in a place known as Stardew Valley. The game was released for Windows in February 2016 before being ported to other platforms. Stardew Valley is open-ended, allowing players to grow crops, raise livestock, fish, cook, mine, forage, and socialize with the townspeople, including the ability to marry and have children. It allows up to four players to play online together.

Star Hammer: The Vanguard Prophecy	Star Hammer: The Vanguard Prophecy is a science fiction turn-based strategy video game developed by Black Lab Games and published by Slitherine Software for Windows and macOS on June 4, 2015. It is the second game in the Star Hammer series after Star Hammer Tactics.

Starlink: Battle for Atlas	The game is set in the Atlas star system. Early on in the game, the player's mothership, Equinox, is ambushed by the Forgotten Legion and crashes on a nearby planet; the captain of the Equinox is taken hostage. The Legion's leader, Grax, is obsessed with an extinct race called the Wardens, who left much of their ancient technology behind. Grax, who wants to use such technology for his own legion, acts as a constant threat that the player must face throughout their journey.

Star Ocean: First Departure R	Star Ocean is a 1996 action role-playing game developed by tri-Ace and published by Enix for the Super Famicom. The first game in the Star Ocean series, it was released only in Japan in July 1996, and was the first game developed by tri-Ace, consisting of staff that had previously left Wolf Team due to being unhappy with the development process for Tales of Phantasia with Namco in 1995. The game used a special compression chip in its cartridge to compress and store all of the game's data due to possessing graphics that pushed the limits of the Super Famicom. Additionally, the game had voice acting for the game's intro and voice clips that played during the game's battle gameplay, a rarity for games on the system.

Star Ocean: Integrity and Faithlessness	The battle system is similar to other games in the Star Ocean series, with the player controlling one of seven party members in battles, with the ability to switch control of characters. The real-time action battle system features improved game mechanics. The storytelling cutscenes are intended to be interactive and dynamic, and seamlessly transition with the gameplay. Features from previous Star Ocean games such the ability to create items are also present. Enemies are programmed to have a "very complex" AI, with players able to custom configure enemy intelligence to a degree. The game uses "private actions" system of previous series titles, where the story tracks which party members interact during the story to adjust the story's direction.

Star Ocean: The Last Hope	An international version of the game was released by Square Enix for PlayStation 3 in February 2010. Officially known as Star Ocean: The Last Hope International, the game contains both Japanese and English voices as well as new content that is exclusive to it. A remastered version was released for PlayStation 4 and Windows in November 2017.

Star Ocean: Second Evolution	Star Ocean: The Second Story, known in Japan as Star Ocean: Second Story ( , Sut shan: Sekando Sutr), is an action role-playing video game developed by tri-Ace and published by Enix for the PlayStation. It is the second game in the Star Ocean series and the first game in the series to be released outside Japan, arriving in North America in June 1999 and Europe in April 2000, by Sony Computer Entertainment. Taking place in a science fantasy universe, the story centers around a young man named Claude C. Kenny, a cadet from a space-faring Earth organization who is stranded on an undeveloped, medieval-level planet. There, he meets several companions and must stop a plot from an evil organization that spans multiple worlds before finding his way home. The game was the basis of manga and anime adaptations.

Star Trek: Bridge Crew	Star Trek: Bridge Crew takes place in the timeline established in the 2009 Star Trek film and sees the Starfleet ship USS Aegis searching for a new homeworld for the Vulcans after the destruction of their planet. The ship heads for a region of space called 'The Trench', which is being occupied by Klingons.

Star Wars Battlefront	Star Wars Battlefront is an action shooter video game developed by DICE, with additional work from Criterion Games, and published by Electronic Arts in November 2015. The game, based on the Star Wars film franchise, is the third major release in the Star Wars: Battlefront sub-series, but is considered a reboot to the previous games, instead of a sequel, to reflect the new Star Wars canon that Lucasfilm established (to replace the Star Wars expanded universe) after being acquired by The Walt Disney Company.

Star Wars Battlefront II	Star Wars Battlefront II is an action shooter video game based on the Star Wars franchise. It is the fourth main installment of the Star Wars: Battlefront series, and a sequel to the 2015 reboot of the series. It was developed by DICE, in collaboration with Criterion Games and Motive Studios, and published by Electronic Arts. The game was released worldwide on November 17, 2017, for the PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. The game features both single-player and multiplayer modes, and overall includes more content than its predecessor. The single-player campaign of the game is set between the films Return of the Jedi and The Force Awakens, and follows an original character, Iden Versio, the commander of an Imperial special ops strike force dubbed Inferno Squad, who defects to the New Republic after becoming disillusioned with the Galactic Empire's tactics. Most of the story takes place during the final year of the Galactic Civil War, before the Empire's definitive defeat at the Battle of Jakku.

Star Wars Episode I: Racer	Star Wars Episode I: Racer is a 1999 racing video game based on the podracing sequence in the film Star Wars: Episode I  The Phantom Menace. The game features all of the racers and race course on Tatooine from The Phantom Menace. It adds several new courses, on Tatooine and various planets. It has several single player modes, including a tournament mode. The format of multiplayer mode varies by platform. Jake Lloyd and Lewis MacLeod, who portrayed Anakin Skywalker and Sebulba in The Phantom Menace, reprise their film roles in the game.

Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy	Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy is a first- and third-person shooter video game developed by Raven Software and published by LucasArts for Microsoft Windows, OS X and Xbox in 2003. Vicarious Visions was responsible for the development of the Xbox version. The game is a sequel to 2002's Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast and the fourth and final installment in the Star Wars: Jedi Knight series. The single-player story, set in the fictional Star Wars expanded universe two years after Jedi Outcast, follows Jaden Korr, a new student at Luke Skywalker's Jedi Academy under the tutelage of the previous games' protagonist, Kyle Katarn. As Jaden, players are tasked with investigating a Dark Jedi cult called the Disciples of Ragnos, while slowly learning the ways of the Force and committing themselves to either the light side or the dark side.

Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast	Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast is a 2002 first- and third-person shooter video game. The Microsoft Windows was developed by Raven Software, the Mac OS X version by Westlake Interactive, and the Xbox and GameCube versions by Vicarious Visions; most versions were published by LucasArts, with only the Mac version published by Aspyr. The game is a sequel to 1997's Star Wars Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II, and the third main installment in the Star Wars: Jedi Knight series. The single-player campaign, set in the fictional Star Wars expanded universe two years after the Mysteries of the Sith expansion for Dark Forces II, follows returning protagonist Kyle Katarn, a mercenary working for the New Republic and former Jedi who cut his connection to the Force. Katarn must return to his Jedi ways to stop a branch of the Imperial Remnant led by the Dark Jedi Desann from empowering their army with the Force.

Star Wars: Republic Commando	Star Wars: Republic Commando is a tactical first-person shooter video game developed and published by LucasArts. It was released for the Xbox and Microsoft Windows in March 2005. Set in the Star Wars Legends expanded universe, the game revolves around Delta Squad, a special ops unit within the Galactic Republic's Clone Army consisting of four genetically-enhanced clone troopers, referred to as "Clone Commandos." Throughout the single-player campaign, players assume the role of the squad's leader, RC-1138 ("Boss"), and complete various missions during the Clone Wars. Players can also indirectly control the actions of their squadmates RC-1262 ("Scorch"), RC-1140 ("Fixer"), and RC-1207 ("Sev") by issuing different commands, which allow for certain situations to be approached in multiple ways.

Star Wars: Squadrons	Star Wars: Squadrons is a  space combat game set in the Star Wars universe developed by Motive Studio and published by Electronic Arts. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, on October 2, 2020 and for Xbox Series X/S on December 3, 2020. The game features both multiplayer game modes and a single-player campaign. Set after Return of the Jedi, the campaign alternates between the New Republic's Vanguard Squadron and the Galactic Empire's Titan Squadron, both of which become involved with the Republic's Project Starhawk; Vanguard Squadron wants to ensure its completion, while Titan Squadron attempts to destroy it.

State of Mind	The game is played through a third-person perspective. There is no combat involved in the game, instead gameplay mostly revolves around interacting with other characters, solving puzzles and doing mini games. Many things in the world can be scanned and interacted with, which gives the player information about items in the world. Players can, for example, interact with photos of the main character Richard's family. The game also focuses on exploring a wide variety of locations.

Stay Cool, Kobayashi-san!: A River City Ransom Story	A few of the early Kunio games for the NES were localized for the North American market. These include Renegade, River City Ransom, Super Dodge Ball, Crash 'n' the Boys: Street Challenge and Nintendo World Cup, which are heavily "Americanized" versions of the Kunio-kun games. Techns Japan has released over twenty Kunio-kun titles for the Famicom, Game Boy, and Super Famicom in Japan. In addition, licensed ports of the games were made for other platforms such as the PC-Engine (through Naxat Soft), Mega Drive (through Pal Soft) and the X68000 (through Sharp).

Stealth Inc: A Clone in the Dark	Stealth Bastard: Tactical Espionage Arsehole is a 2D platform video game developed by Curve Studios and published by Curve Digital. Its mechanics revolve around stealth, and the gameplay has been likened to that of Metal Gear Solid and Super Meat Boy. The player controls a goggle-wearing clone who must make his way through a testing facility filled with hazards and robot sentries by staying in the shadows, risking instant death if he is spotted by an enemy. The game was released on 4 November 2011 as Stealth Bastard as a free download for Microsoft Windows. An expanded version, Stealth Bastard Deluxe, was released for Windows via Steam the following November. It subsequently became available for OS X and Linux in April 2013 along with The Teleporter Chambers downloadable content released the previous month. In June 2013, it was released for Android as part of the Humble Bundle with Android 6, including DRM-free versions for Windows, Mac OS and Linux and its soundtrack. Versions for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita were also released in July 2013 under the name Stealth Inc: A Clone in the Dark. Curve have also announced plans to release the game for iPad and iPhone. In February 2014 a PlayStation 4 version of the game titled the Ultimate Edition was announced. It contains two DLC expansions The Teleporter Chambers and The Lost Clones and was released in March 2014. On 1 May 2014, a sequel, Stealth Inc 2: A Game of Clones, was announced for the Wii U. It was released on 30 October 2014. The Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Xbox One version was also announced. The sequel, Stealth Inc. 2, was released in April 2015 for Xbox One, PlayStation 4 and PC.

Stealth Inc 2: A Game of Clones	Stealth Inc 2 is a puzzle platform game. The game revolves around goggles-wearing clones, in which the player takes control of multiple clones. Players explore a cloning facility in which they were born, obtaining equipment to unlock new areas as they go. The game makes use of the Wii U GamePad in multiple ways,  including managing the skill and tools to keep the main player hidden.

SteamWorld Dig	SteamWorld Dig is a platform action-adventure game created by Swedish video game developer Image & Form. The second installment in the SteamWorld series after SteamWorld Tower Defense, SteamWorld Dig has the player control Rusty, a steam-powered robot who arrives at a small Western mining town called Tumbleton after having received a deed for a mine from his long-forgotten uncle, Joe. The objective of the game is to dig through Tumbleton's mine, which also involves solving puzzles and platforming to avoid traps and enemies. 

SteamWorld Dig 2	Publisher Rising Star Games released physical retail copies of the game for the Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 in 2018.

SteamWorld Heist	SteamWorld Heist was released on the Nintendo eShop for the Nintendo 3DS in Europe, the Americas, Australia and New Zealand on December 10, 2015. It was released worldwide for Microsoft Windows, OS X and Linux through Steam on June 7, 2016, for the PlayStation 4 and the PlayStation Vita via the PlayStation Store on June 7, 2016, in North America and on June 8, 2016, in Europe and Australia. It was released both physically and digitally (through the Nintendo eShop) for the Wii U on September 30, 2016, in Europe and Australia and in North America on October 20, 2016. It was released worldwide on the iOS App store on November 9, 2016. On December 28, 2017, the game was released worldwide for the Nintendo Switch (via Nintendo eShop) under the subtitle Ultimate Edition. It was released on Google's cloud gaming service Stadia on March 10, 2020, and on Amazon's cloud gaming service Luna on October 20, 2020.

Steep	Steep is a sports video game developed by Ubisoft Annecy and published by Ubisoft. It was released worldwide on 2 December 2016 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One.

Steins;Gate 0	Steins;Gate 0 is a 2015 visual novel video game developed by 5pb. It is part of the Science Adventure series, and is set in the period of the 2009 game Steins;Gate. It was released by 5pb. in Japan for the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita in December 2015, Microsoft Windows in August 2016, Xbox One in February 2017, and Nintendo Switch in March 2019.

Steins;Gate Elite	Steins;Gate Elite is a science fiction visual novel and interactive movie video game, part of the Science Adventure series. It was developed by 5pb. for PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Nintendo Switch, Microsoft Windows and iOS, and was released in September 2018 in Japan and in February 2019 internationally. It is an updated, fully animated remake of the 2009 game Steins;Gate, using footage from the anime adaptation of the original game along with newly produced animation by White Fox.

Steins;Gate: My Darling's Embrace	Steins;Gate: My Darling's Embrace is a visual novel video game developed by 5pb., originally released for the Xbox 360 in 2011. It has since been ported to several other platforms, and was released by Spike Chunsoft in English for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Microsoft Windows in 2019. It is part of the Science Adventure series, and a spin-off from the 2009 game Steins;Gate. The game is a romantic comedy set in a different world from the one in the original Steins;Gate, where the player builds romantic relationships with Steins;Gate characters. By making certain choices and interacting with the player character's cell phone, the player can affect the direction of the plot.

Stellaris	Stellaris is a real-time strategy with 4X and grand strategy elements, taking place on a map of the Milky Way galaxy with individual star systems acting as two-dimensional tiles similar to previous Paradox releases. Players take the role of a single FTL-capable civilization, referred to as an empire, with the goal of exploring and claiming systems, colonizing habitable planets, and expanding their economy to outcompete rival civilizations progressively encountered through first contact events. The relative power of empires is evaluated off of three factors consisting of military power, technological progress, or economic power, allowing players to either specialize in a single area or maintain a balanced approach, with the ultimate goal being to either ally with or defeat every other empire in the game while surviving a number of external "crises" threatening the entire galaxy. Star systems can only be traversed via a web of faster-than-light routes called hyperlanes, while habitable planets hold populations of an empire's citizens  represented by "pops"  and can be built up with buildings and districts that produce resources or other passive effects as long as there are enough pops to fill the available jobs.

Steven Universe: Save the Light	After the events of Attack the Light!, Steven, the Gems and their friends go on a quest to retrieve the Light Prism when the Homeworld Gem Hessonite (voiced by Christine Baranski) steals it.

Stikbold! A Dodgeball Adventure	The sport is mostly played in schools under varying rules, and also formally as an international sport, under rules that vary among international governing bodies, such as the World Dodgeball Federation (WDBF), which runs the Dodgeball World Championship and the World Dodgeball Association (WDA). USA Dodgeball is the governing entity for dodgeball in the United States, with member leagues and clubs across the nation.

Stories: The Path of Destinies	The player controls an anthropomorphic fox named Reynardo that is part of a resistance force fighting against an oppressive Emperor. The player controls Reynardo from a third-person perspective, using a combination of attack combos to defeat foes, gain experience to unlock new combat skills, and craft new weapons that unlock parts of levels. During his escapades, Reynardo comes across a magic book that lets him see potential choices and their results, and subsequently go back and make different choices; however, Reynardo retains all the experience and upgrades earned up to that point, thus able to proceed along different paths at these points. The goal is to seek the best-possible ending out of the twenty-four that are set in the game.

Stories Untold	Stories Untold is an episodic horror adventure-puzzle video game developed by No Code and published by Devolver Digital. Written and directed by Jon McKellan, the game was released on 27 February 2017 for macOS and Microsoft Windows, for the Nintendo Switch in January 2020 and for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in October 2020. It is a mix of adventure game genres, including text-based adventure, first-person exploration, and puzzle solving, and is themed after technology from the 1980s.

Strafe	Strafe (stylized as STRAFE) is a first-person shooter video game developed by Pixel Titans and published by Devolver Digital. The game is an homage to 1990s first-person shooter video games, such as Doom and Quake, advertised as to have "bleeding edge graphics and gameplay", citing the year 1996. It was released worldwide on May 9, 2017.

Stranded Deep	Stranded Deep is a survival video game developed and published by Australian studio Beam Team Games for Microsoft Windows, macOS, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, Xbox One and Linux.

Strange Brigade	Strange Brigade is a cooperative third-person shooter video game developed and published by Rebellion Developments. It was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on August 28, 2018, on August 1, 2020 for Stadia, and on June 15, 2021 for Nintendo Switch. In the game, the player fights against different mythological enemies and solves puzzles.

Stranger of Paradise: Final Fantasy Origin	Stranger of Paradise: Final Fantasy Origin is an action role-playing game in which players take on the role of protagonist Jack, exploring environments and fighting monsters of the Final Fantasy series. Combat takes place in real-time, with Jack being able to switch between two assigned jobs and use physical and magical attacks. Once an enemy's "break gauge" is depleted, Jack can perform a finishing blow that crystallizes the enemy, allowing Jack to harvest them and restore a portion of his magic meter.

Stranger Things 3: The Game	Players replay scenes from the third season of Stranger Things.  There are twelve playable characters from the series, each of whom has a unique weapon and abilities.  The weapons can be upgraded using a crafting system.  Players can explore the open world, but some areas are only accessible if players have recruited a specific character.  Up two characters can be active at a time; the second is controlled either by the computer or another player via local multiplayer.  Players can switch between characters at any time.  Combat is frequent and similar to Streets of Rage.  It is played from an isometric viewpoint.

Street Fighter 30th Anniversary Collection	Street Fighter 30th Anniversary Collection is a compilation of fighting games from the Street Fighter series developed by Digital Eclipse and published by Capcom in celebration of the series' 30th anniversary. The collection was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in May 2018.

Street Fighter V	Similar to the previous games in the Street Fighter series, Street Fighter V features a side-scrolling fighting gameplay system. The game also introduces the "V-Gauge", which builds as the player receives attacks and adds three new skills. The game featured 16 characters at launch, with four of them being new to the series. A main story mode and 30 additional characters were added through updates and downloadable content.

Street Fighter V: Arcade Edition	Similar to the previous games in the Street Fighter series, Street Fighter V features a side-scrolling fighting gameplay system. The game also introduces the "V-Gauge", which builds as the player receives attacks and adds three new skills. The game featured 16 characters at launch, with four of them being new to the series. A main story mode and 30 additional characters were added through updates and downloadable content.

Street Fighter V: Champion Edition	Similar to the previous games in the Street Fighter series, Street Fighter V features a side-scrolling fighting gameplay system. The game also introduces the "V-Gauge", which builds as the player receives attacks and adds three new skills. The game featured 16 characters at launch, with four of them being new to the series. A main story mode and 30 additional characters were added through updates and downloadable content.

Street Fighter 6	Street Fighter 6 is a 2023 fighting game developed and published by Capcom. Announced in February 2022, it is the seventh main entry in the Street Fighter franchise, and was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows and Xbox Series X/S on June 2, 2023, while an arcade version, named Street Fighter 6 Type Arcade, was published by Taito for Japanese arcade cabinets on December 14, 2023. Additionally, a prequel comic book series was unveiled in September 2022.

Streets of Rage 4	Streets of Rage 4 is a side-scrolling beat 'em up game developed by Dotemu, Lizardcube, and Guard Crush Games and published by Dotemu. The game is a continuation of Sega's Streets of Rage trilogy, originally released for the Sega Genesis during the 1990s. It was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One, Linux, and macOS, in 2020, for Stadia in 2021, and Android and iOS in 2022. Streets of Rage 4 received generally positive reviews and sold over 2.5 million copies by April 2021. An expansion, Mr. X Nightmare, was released in July 2021.

Streets of Rogue	Streets of Rogue is set in a procedurally generated city consisting of several floors. In order to progress, the players will need to accomplish specific mission goals through the use of special character traits and items. After every death, new gadgets and abilities can be bought for the next session with chicken nuggets earned up to that point. The action is seen from a top-down view, and every level has a different visual theme.

Strider	The player control the series' main character, Strider Hiryu. The environment is freely explorable in search for weapons and items. Strider Hiryu's main weapon is his Cypher, a plasma weapon that can take several properties. Upgrades for the Cypher can be obtained by exploring Kazakh.

Strike Suit Zero	Strike Suit Zero is a story-driven single player game where the player assumes the role of a fighter pilot of a transforming mecha for the United Nations of Earth (U.N.E) in a massive war against the combined forces of the space colonies. The game is designed so that the battles do not revolve entirely around the player; a complete battle simulation between allied and enemy forces will be going on in the background while the player performs specific objectives, giving the impression that the player's role is only one small part of a much larger conflict.

Strike Vector EX	The game is built on the Unreal Development Kit Engine. It was released for Microsoft Windows on January 28, 2014, on Steam. A console port Strike Vector EX was released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in August 2016 and also released for Windows on Steam in July 2017.

Strikers 1945	In 2022, the original arcade version was included as part of the Sega Astro City Mini V, a vertically-oriented variant of the Sega Astro City mini console.

Strikers 1945 II	As in Strikers 1945, the player chooses one of six World War II-era fighter planes, then uses machine guns and bombs to fight through eight stages (the first four stages being in random order and the latter four stages in linear fashion). Once the game is beaten, a report showing how well the player did is displayed, and the game 'loops' with the difficulty much higher. Each game begins with three lives, and an extent is earned at 600,000 (or 800,000). When all lives are lost, the option to continue is given but the score is reset.

Strikers 1945 III	Strikers 1945 III  also known as Strikers 1999 (1999), is a vertically scrolling shoot 'em up game developed and originally released by Psikyo in 1999 for the arcades. The game is a sequel to Strikers 1945 II, chronologically taking place 54 years after the first two games in the series.

Stubbs the Zombie in Rebel Without a Pulse	Stubbs the Zombie in Rebel Without a Pulse is a reverse horror video game developed by Wideload Games and published by Aspyr Media. It was released on October 18, 2005, for the Xbox video game console, and was released for Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X in November that same year. The game was released on February 10, 2006, in Europe with distribution handled by THQ. The game was made available on Steam on May 17, 2007 and was later removed, but it became available for purchase again in March 2021 following an update which fixed several major compatibility and stability issues. It became available on Microsoft's Xbox Live Marketplace as an Xbox Originals on May 19, 2008, but was removed late 2012 due to technical issues.

Styx: Master of Shadows	Styx: Master of Shadows is a stealth video game developed by Cyanide Studios for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. The game is a prequel, and the second video game to take place in the world established by 2012's Of Orcs and Men.

Styx: Shards of Darkness	Like its predecessor, Styx is able to clone himself and to lay traps for his enemies, and can temporarily turn invisible. The player has the option of engaging enemies or avoiding them. Ropes and grappling hooks can be used to reach high areas. There is also a multiplayer co-op mode, with the second player controlling one of Styx's clones.

Submerged	The player controls a young girl, Miku, as she explores an archipelago of half-sunken buildings, climbing ruins and traversing the spaces between using a rowboat. The game focuses on exploration; it involves no enemies or combat, and Miku cannot be killed.

Subnautica	Subnautica is an action-adventure game developed and published by Unknown Worlds Entertainment. Players control a non-essential systems maintenance chief named Ryley, often referred to as the janitor inside the Subnautica community, who is the only survivor of a spaceship crash on an alien planet. They are free to explore the oceanic planet. The main objectives are to find essential resources, survive the local flora and fauna, and find a way to escape the planet.  It includes some elements of survival games and some elements of non-survival games.

Subnautica: Below Zero	Subnautica: Below Zero is an open-world survival action-adventure video game developed and published by Unknown Worlds Entertainment. The game is the sequel to Subnautica.

Sudden Strike 4	The single-player mode features 3 campaigns (German, Allied or Soviet) with over 20 missions and modding support is planned. Each of the missions in the different campaigns are based on real life World War II battles/invasions. For example, in the German campaign the player commands the Wehrmacht in the Battle of France, Operation Barbarossa, the Battle of Stalingrad, the Battle of Kursk and the Battle of the Bulge. The Invasion of Poland is used as a tutorial for the game and also acts as a prelude to the German campaign. Post-release DLCs features additional campaigns set in other theatres such as North African campaign, Winter and Continuation War, Battle of Dunkirk and Pacific War.

Summer Time Rendering: Another Horizon	Summer Time Rendering (Japanese: , Hepburn: Sam Taimu Renda) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Yasuki Tanaka. It was serialized on Shueisha's digital magazine Shnen Jump+ from October 2017 to February 2021. An anime television series adaptation produced by OLM aired from April to September 2022. A real escape game and a video game have also been released, and a live-action project has been announced.

Summon Night 6	Similar to prior mainline entries in the Summon Night video game series, the game plays as a strategic/tactical role-playing video game, with elements of visual novels. In addition to the core gameplay, it will also feature multiple mini-games as well.

Sundered	Sundered is a Metroidvania game in which the player must traverse a side-scrolling world and unlock new abilities to progress. These are unlocked at shrines, and the player can open shortcuts that provide a faster way across the game's world. The game makes use of some random elements, as enemy hordes will spawn randomly and try to attack the player. Additionally, after every death, the passages connecting the game's areas rearrange themselves using procedural generation.

Sunless Sea: Zubmariner Edition	Sunless Sea is a survival/exploration role-playing video game with roguelike elements developed by Failbetter Games. The game was released on 6 February 2015 for Windows and OS X following a successful Kickstarter campaign to crowdfund the project. The game takes place in the universe of Failbetter's browser adventure game Fallen London, in which Victorian-era London has been moved beneath the Earth's surface to the edge of the Unterzee, a vast underground ocean. On 11 October 2016, the game's first downloadable content Zubmariner was released, which allows players to explore beneath the surface of the "zee". A sequel, Sunless Skies, was announced in September 2016. It surpassed its funding goals on Kickstarter and was released on 31 January 2019.

Sunless Skies: Sovereign Edition	Sunless Skies is a role-playing video game developed by Failbetter Games. Partially funded by a Kickstarter campaign, the game entered early access in 2017 and released in January 2019, and has been described as a "Gothic horror roleplay game". Sunless Skies is a direct sequel to 2015's Sunless Sea and incorporates similar elements and setting.

Superbeat: Xonic	The gameplay of Superbeat: Xonic consists of tapping notes to the beat of a song, either with the PlayStation Vita's face buttons or touchscreen. Modes, in order of difficulty, include 4 TRAX mode, 6 TRAX, and 6 TRAX FX. When selecting any mode, 3 tracks are played in succession and the player's performance is evaluated at the end. Local scores can be uploaded to a global online leaderboard if connected to the internet.

Super Blood Hockey	Super Blood Hockey is an ice hockey video game for Windows. The game was developed and published by Loren Lemcke in 2017. It was available in the Nintendo eShop for the Nintendo Switch in April 2019 with release dates from PlayStation 4 and Xbox One later in the year. The console versions included a new franchise mode, with the PC version receiving this mode as a free update. A limited physical release of the Switch version was released by Premium Edition Games.

Super Bomberman R	Super Bomberman R ( , Sp Bonbman ru) is an action-maze game developed by Konami and HexaDrive and published by Konami. The game was first released worldwide as a launch title for the Nintendo Switch in March 2017, and later for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in June 2018. Part of the Bomberman franchise, it is the sixth installment of the Super Bomberman series and the first game in the series to be released in twenty years (following 1997's Super Bomberman 5). It is also the first Bomberman entry in the franchise to be developed for consoles following the dissolution of original series owner Hudson Soft in 2012.

Super Dungeon Bros	The game takes place in the fictional realm of Rkheim which comprises the worlds Cryptheim, Chillheim, and Bogheim, each of which is modeled after a different theme (underground, snow and jungle, respectively). Each location features a randomly generated layout that varies with every playthrough.

Superhot	Superhot is an independent first-person shooter (FPS) video game developed and published by Superhot Team. Though the game follows traditional first-person shooter gameplay mechanics, with the player attempting to take out enemy targets using guns and other weapons, time within the game progresses at normal speed only when the player moves; this creates the opportunity for the player to assess their situation in slow motion and respond appropriately, making the gameplay similar to strategy video games. The game is presented in a minimalist art style, with enemies in red and weapons in black, in contrast to the otherwise white and grey environment.

Superhot: Mind Control Delete	Superhot: Mind Control Delete retains the core mechanics of its predecessor and adds roguelike elements: Players are placed on a level (represented as a text mode graph) and must complete each node to access the other nodes connected to it. To complete a node, the player must complete a sequence of consecutive maps of Superhot - the number of the maps, the maps themselves and their layout are all procedurally generated. These maps themselves feature endlessly spawning enemies, and the player must kill a certain amount of them to complete the map; unlike Superhot, however, the player has a certain amount of hearts they can lose before they are killed - if they are killed, the sequence is regenerated and the player must begin the sequence again from the start. There are four levels in total, with ultimate goal being finding the node to move to the level above: As the player goes on, the difficulty increases, with longer sequences, some enemies holding guns that break when the enemy is killed, enemies who are only partially vulnerable, enemies that explode into projectiles when killed, environmental hazards and glitching scenery.

Super Hydorah	The game follows the Delta Lance, a lone space fighter, as its pilot fights to defeat the evil Meroptian alien race and save humanity. Super Hydorah received positive reviews, praising its graphics, design and music, while criticizing its game balance and unforgiving difficulty.

Superliminal	Superliminal was released for macOS and Windows in November 2019, for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in July 2020, for Linux in November 2020, and for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in November 2022. It received generally positive reviews from critics. Multiplayer support and other modes were added to the game after launch.

Super Meat Boy	Development of the game began in early 2009. McMillen worked on level design and artwork, while Refenes coded it. The game's soundtrack was written by Danny Baranowsky, who had also worked on the original Meat Boy. Super Meat Boy won several awards and has been cited as one of the greatest video games of all time. Critics lauded the game's controls, art, soundtrack, and challenging gameplay. The game was also a commercial success, selling over a million copies by January 2012. A sequel, Super Meat Boy Forever, was released on December 23, 2020, without McMillen's involvement.

Super Meat Boy Forever	The game was released on December 23, 2020, for the Switch and PC, and released on PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X on April 16, 2021. Mobile versions were released on April 20, 2023. It received mixed reviews from critics and was followed by a spinoff, Dr. Fetus' Mean Meat Machine.

Super Mega Baseball	The first game, Super Mega Baseball, was released on December 16, 2014 as a PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 cross-buy title on the U.S. PlayStation Store. It was released on the European PlayStation Store on April 1, 2015.

Super Mega Baseball 2	The first game, Super Mega Baseball, was released on December 16, 2014 as a PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 cross-buy title on the U.S. PlayStation Store. It was released on the European PlayStation Store on April 1, 2015.

Super Mega Baseball 3	The first game, Super Mega Baseball, was released on December 16, 2014 as a PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 cross-buy title on the U.S. PlayStation Store. It was released on the European PlayStation Store on April 1, 2015.

Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz	An HD remake, Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz HD, was released worldwide on October 29, 2019, for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One, and in December for Windows via Steam. The Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 versions were also released in Japan on October 31.

Super Monkey Ball: Banana Mania	As in previous Super Monkey Ball games, the objective of the primary game mode is to navigate a monkey in a ball across a series of suspended platforms to reach a goal and clear the stage. To do this, the player must tilt the stage to direct the ball's movement, utilizing the game's physics to clear obstacles and avoid falling off the edge. Banana Mania features recreations of all 300 stages from Super Monkey Ball Deluxe (2005), a compilation release of Super Monkey Ball (2001) and Super Monkey Ball 2 (2002). Certain stages have been rebalanced, decreasing their overall difficulty; the original versions of these stages can still be played in a new "Original Stage Mode". The Story mode from 2 also returns, now utilizing comic-book-style story sequences in place of the animated cutscenes from the original releases, along with all 12 multiplayer party games from DX.

Super Motherload	The basic gameplay is similar to that of Motherload, with some new additions. Players drill, collect minerals, and return to base when fuel runs out to refuel, repair, sell minerals, and upgrade their digging machine. New to Super Motherload are underground bases which serve as checkpoints, preventing the need for players to return to the surface each time they fill up their cargo bay. The game also introduces mineral smelting, which allows the creation of a number of alloys by collecting minerals in certain sequences. The introduction of a number of optional puzzles, solvable via the use of bombs, is also new to Super Motherload.

Super Neptunia RPG	Super Neptunia RPG was first released in December 2018 in Japan, and then released by Idea Factory International worldwide in June 2019. Primarily developed by a French-Canadian studio, it is the first game in the series that has been developed by a company not located in Japan.

Super Robot Wars OG: The Moon Dwellers	This list provides an index of video game titles in Banpresto's Super Robot Wars franchise, known as Super Robot Taisen in Japan. Most of the games in the series are tactical role-playing games, but several games representing other genres were also released. List is divided by video game genre and ordered by initial release date. Only the original games, Neo Super Robot Wars and Super Robot Wars Compact, had final bosses that were not directly created by Banpresto.

Super Robot Wars T	Super Robot Wars T follows the same basic structure as most other games in the Super Robot Wars franchise: before a stage begins, the character receives introductory dialogue between playable characters which leading to the scenario on the battlefield. To complete a scenario, the player must accomplish certain objectives. Some scenarios are longer, with some having multi-part missions or new objectives added as the story unfolds. On battlefield, the player and enemy take turns to order their units with commands such as moving, attacking, and casting "Spirit Commands", a set of magic-like spells unique to each pilot. Once the scenario is cleared, more dialogue is exchanged between characters before the player is taken to an intermission menu. Here, units can be upgraded or optional parts installed, characters' stats and skills can be changed or upgraded, and other maintenance actions can be performed before the continuing on with the game.

Super Robot Wars V	Like the previous titles of the series, Super Robot Wars V is a Tactical RPG game with story elements and utilizes the same graphics engine seen in 3rd Super Robot Wars Z, but with an inclusion of a 3d isometric map unlike its predecessor. Like other games, it follows the same basic structure: when a stage begins, the character receives introductory dialogue between playable characters, leading to the scenario on the battlefield. To complete a scenario, the player must accomplish scenario objectives. Some scenarios are longer, with multi-part missions or have new objectives added as the story unfolds. On battlefield, the player and enemy take turns to order their units with commands available, such as movement, attacking, forming squads and casting "Spirit Commands", a set of magic-like spells unique to each pilot. Once the scenario is cleared, more dialogue is exchanged between characters before the player is taken to an intermission menu. Here, units can be upgraded or optional parts installed, characters' stats and skills can be changed or upgraded, and other maintenance actions can be performed before the player continues on with the game.

Super Robot Wars X	This list provides an index of video game titles in Banpresto's Super Robot Wars franchise, known as Super Robot Taisen in Japan. Most of the games in the series are tactical role-playing games, but several games representing other genres were also released. List is divided by video game genre and ordered by initial release date. Only the original games, Neo Super Robot Wars and Super Robot Wars Compact, had final bosses that were not directly created by Banpresto.

Super Stardust Ultra	The game combines the mechanics of Asteroids and Robotron: 2084 with a level of action found typically in modern games such as Geometry Wars. The game is an enhanced version of Super Stardust for the Amiga. Super Stardust HD was one of the games given for free by Sony as part of their 'Welcome Back' package due to the PlayStation Network outage in 2011. Super Stardust HD was the first title with trophy support on the PlayStation 3.

Super Star Wars	In 2015, Disney Interactive Studios re-released the game for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita, with Code Mystics developing the ports. The port features enhanced options for saving, including cross-save, leaderboards and trophies, and modern displays and controllers. The game was also made a part of a bundle with the purchase of Star Wars Battlefront for the PlayStation 4, which included Star Wars: Racer Revenge, Star Wars: Jedi Starfighter and Star Wars Bounty Hunter.

Super Time Force Ultra	The game was later released in an updated version entitled Super Time Force Ultra on the Xbox platforms, and Microsoft Windows through Steam and GOG.com on August 25, 2014, and on PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita on September 1, 2015. Since its release, the game has received critical acclaim and awards for its humorous storytelling, gameplay, and original game mechanics.

Supraland	Supraland is primarily developed by Supra Games founder David Mnnich, who wanted to create an adventure video game based primarily on the Metroidvania subgenre, which is primarily characterized by guided non-linearity as well as utility-gated exploration and progression mechanics. Supraland is played from a first-person perspective, which Mnnich believes allows players to provides a superior sense of immersion within the in-game world as opposed to one that is played from a third-person perspective.

The Surge	The Surge is considered a spiritual successor to Deck13 Interactive's earlier action role-playing game Lords of the Fallen, with which it shares many gameplay features. Deck13 Interactive described the game as inspired by Rise of the Robots and the Dark Souls series.

The Surge 2	The Surge 2 is an action role-playing game played from a third-person perspective. The game features a character creator which allows players to customize the appearances and gender of their player avatar. Players can utilize a variety of melee weapons to defeat enemies, whose limbs can be targeted and removed individually. Players can also dodge and parry attacks, which requires players to properly angulate their equipped weapon. Combat drones and consumables such as bio-sensors can also be deployed. When players kill or dismember their opponents, they can collect and equip the weapons, armor enhancements or tech left by them. Jericho city, the game's setting, offers alternate paths which players can explore freely. In the game, players will meet different non-playable characters and have to make different choices which will affect the game's world and story. Players can also leave graffiti messages in their game's world for other players to see.

Surgeon Simulator	Surgeon Simulator (formerly Surgeon Simulator 2013) is a surgical simulation video game by Tom Jackson, Jack Good, Luke Williams and James Broadley of Bossa Studios. The initial version was created in a 48-hour period for the 2013 Global Game Jam; the developers continued and spent 48 days creating a commercial version. The full version was released via Steam in April 2013, and GOG.com on 10 October 2013 followed by an iPad release on 7 March 2014.

Surviving Mars	Surviving Mars is a city-building survival game that takes place on Mars and is modeled after real Martian data. The player chooses a sponsoring nation, each conferring slightly different benefits and a unique building and vehicle, and then lands on Mars with robotic drones and rovers. These rovers and drones prepare the colony for humans on the red planet by setting up power and water infrastructure, domes, resource depots, oxygen generators, and landing pads. The player's goal is to create a thriving colony on Mars with occasional rockets from Earth, which have limited cargo or passenger space, forcing the player to balance paying to import resources from Earth and producing resources on the planet. For example, the first human colonists will bring limited food with them on their rocket, so farms are crucial to a thriving colony on Mars.

Surviving the Aftermath	Surviving the Aftermath takes place in a post-apocalyptic world.  The nature of the disaster is configurable and affects the difficulty of the game.  The map is procedurally generated.  After establishing a settlement, the player begins attracting colonists.  Most of them are automated, but some have specialist skills and can be directly controlled.  These colonists can explore the map and scavenge for resources. Random events can cause further disasters or force the player to make decisions.  Over time, the player unlocks new technologies, which allow them to create new buildings.

The Sushi Spinnery	Kairosoft was founded as a djin games developer in 1996, and is currently located in the Nishi-Shinjuku district of Tokyo with only nine employees. They started out developing simulation games for the Windows platform, the first of which was released in 1996 and simulated a used bookstore, and another example was the original Game Dev Story released in 1997, with a sequel released in 2001. In 2001, Kairosoft switched to developing mobile simulation games for the Japanese cell phone market, which was much more developed than America's. The company was incorporated in September 2007, and launched a new website on November 4, 2008.

The Swapper	The Swapper is a side-scrolling puzzle-platformer in a science fiction setting. The player character is stranded on a damaged space station and is looking for a means to escape. To do so, they must explore the station and find orbs that are used to activate certain doors, allowing them to progress further into the game. The game uses some concepts of "Metroidvania" games in which the player may have to backtrack through the facility, divided into a number of rooms, to proceed within the game.

The Swindle	The game received generally positive reception, with critics praising the game's setting and tense gameplay.

Sword & Fairy 6	Legends say when the great ancient god Shennong was born, the Nine Founts were formed. These Founts are also called the Nine Wells of Heaven and Earth, and are sources of nourishment for living beings. Within the Nine Founts reside the world's most potent spiritual energies, and they serve as the foundations of the world's spiritual energy flow.

Sword Art Online: Fatal Bullet	Taking place in the virtual reality MMORPG (VRMMORPG) Gun Gale Online, Fatal Bullet features an alternate timeline to the light novels and anime.

Sword Art Online Re: Hollow Fragment Director's Cut	A "Director's Cut" edition of the game titled Sword Art Online RE: Hollow Fragment was released on PlayStation 4 within North America, Europe, Australia, and the Middle East in July and August 2015, and was released in Japan in November 2015. This version comes with new features, including an online play mode, additional bosses and the ability to play as a female character, among others.

Sword Art Online: Hollow Realization	Unlike in Sword Art Online: Hollow Fragment and Lost Song, a party in Hollow Realization consists of four characters including the player, instead of three. While HF is played like a role-playing game and LS like an action role-playing game, HR is based on HF's style, but with action elements integrated. Characters can be customized through in-game character creation, with gender, height, figure, weapons, and physical appearance changeable. Additionally, over 300 non-player characters appear in the game, with all of them being recruitable to join the player's party. Players can create special bonds with these characters by giving equipment to them. Strengthening the bond also increases the character's strength.

Sword Art Online: Lost Song	Lost Song's story is based on an alternate timeline of Sword Art Online that does not follow the canon storyline of the light novels. It follows series protagonist Kirito and his friends as they play the Virtual Reality Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game (VRMMORPG) called ALfheim Online (ALO). The game introduces a guild named Shamrock, led by scientist and idol Seven, who Kirito competes against to be the first to clear ALO's expansion, Svart ALfheim.

Sword Coast Legends	Sword Coast Legends is a 2015 action role-playing game. The game is set within the universe of Forgotten Realms, a campaign setting of Dungeons & Dragons.

Swords & Soldiers II: Shawarmageddon	A sequel, Swords & Soldiers II, was released on the Wii U eShop in May 2015. In June 2018, Ronimo Games started a Kickstarter project for a re-release, titled Swords & Soldiers II: Shawarmageddon.

The Swords of Ditto	The Swords of Ditto is an action role-playing video game developed by Onebitbeyond and published by Devolver Digital.

Syberia 3	After abandoning the island of Syberia, Kate Walker finds herself adrift on a makeshift boat, rescued by the Youkol people. Determined to escape their common enemies, she decides to help the nomads fulfill their odd ancestral tradition, as they accompany their snow ostriches on their seasonal migration.

System Shock	System Shock is a 2023 action-adventure game developed by Nightdive Studios and published by Prime Matter. It is a remake of the 1994 game System Shock by Looking Glass Studios. The game is set aboard a space station in a cyberpunk vision of the year 2072. Assuming the role of a nameless security hacker, the player attempts to hinder the plans of a malevolent artificial intelligence called SHODAN.

Table Top Racing: World Tour	Table Top Racing is racing video game developed and published by British studio Playrise Digital. The game was originally developed for iOS on January 31, 2013, and later released for Android devices on January 23, 2014. A PlayStation Vita version was released on August 5, 2014.

Taiko no Tatsujin: Drum Session!	While the series is mainly designed for use within Japan, there are also localized versions for other regions, including English, Chinese and Korean-language versions.

Tales from the Borderlands	Set some time after the events of Borderlands 2, the game's story centers around Hyperion employee Rhys and Pandoran con-artist Fiona as they team up on an adventure to find and open a Vault. The game follows the episodic format that Telltale used for its titles The Walking Dead and The Wolf Among Us, where player choices and actions have somewhat significant effects on later story elements. Although the series received some criticism due to the aging game engine and repetition of gameplay from past Telltale Games, Tales from the Borderlands largely received critical acclaim. Particular praise was attributed to its strong characterization, emotional depth, creative setpieces, humorous writing and unexpected pathos.

Tales of Arise	Developed by a team composed of both series veterans and newcomers, the aim was to revitalize the Tales series. Minoru Iwamoto, one of several artists who worked on Tales of Zestiria and Tales of Berseria, returns as both character designer and art director. The game is built using Unreal Engine 4. 

Tales of Berseria	Tales of Berseria is a role-playing video game, where players navigate the game's world through the game's characters from a third-person perspective. As with previous Tales games, characters can interact through Skits, animated clips that play outside cutscenes and battle: characters are represented by head-and-shoulder portraits, and conversations can range from serious to comedic. New to the series' Skit systems is a cut-in effect, where at certain moments within skits characters in various poses will appear in response to the dialogue.

Tales of Vesperia: Definitive Edition	Tales of Vesperia is an action role-playing game developed by Namco Tales Studio. The tenth mainline entry in the Tales series, it was released for the Xbox 360 and published in Japan and North America by Namco Bandai Games in 2008, and in European territories by Atari in 2009. An expanded port of the game for the PlayStation 3 was released in 2009 in Japan. An enhanced version, subtitled Definitive Edition, was released for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in January 2019. The gameplay is similar to previous Tales games, featuring a new version of the series' trademark action-based "Linear Motion Battle System", while also introducing new elements such as online leaderboards.

Tales of Zestiria	Tales of Zestiria (Japanese:   , Hepburn: Teiruzu Obu Zesutiria) is an action role-playing game. It is the fifteenth main entry in the Tales series, developed by Bandai Namco Studios and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. It was released in January 2015 in Japan on the PlayStation 3. For Western release in October of the same year, it was also ported to PlayStation 4 and Windows via Steam. The PS4 version was released in Japan in July 2016. As with previous entries in the Tales series, the game uses a variation of the action-based Linear Motion Battle System, with additional elements including a navigable open world, and the ability for certain characters to fuse into a single entity in battle to deliver powerful attacks.

The Talos Principle	The Talos Principle is a 2014 puzzle video game developed by Croteam and published by Devolver Digital. It was simultaneously released on Linux, OS X and Windows in December 2014. It was released for Android in May 2015, for PlayStation 4 in October 2015, for iOS in October 2017, for Xbox One in August 2018, and Nintendo Switch in December 2019. Virtual reality-enabled versions for the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive were released on 18 October 2017. A DLC entitled Road to Gehenna was released on 23 July 2015.

Tandem: A Tale of Shadows	Tandem: A Tale of Shadows is a puzzle platformer where the gameplay involves alternating between the two characters, Emma and Fenton. Emma explores the rooms and hallways via the floor, while Fenton defies gravity and walks on the walls. Utilising a 3D environment, The game is set in an eerie trap-laden steampunk mansion spread across 40 levels. Each level presents a series of puzzles that the player must solve using the abilities of both the characters. The game also includes various enemies and bosses that the player must overcome.

Tannenberg	Tannenberg is a squad-based multiplayer first-person shooter video game set during World War I. It is a sequel to Verdun, and entered Steam Early Access on November 17, 2017. Tannenberg left Steam Early Access on February 13, 2019. It was released on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on July 24, 2020.


Taxi Chaos	Taxi Chaos is set in the fictional New Yellow City, based on New York City. The game features two taxi drivers  Vinny and Cleo  and several unlockable taxicabs. The player's objective is to pick up customers and deliver them to their destinations as quickly as possible. Customers rate the player's performance using a five-star scale. The player's vehicle can reach rooftops, and can jump from one building to another using ramps.

Tchia	Tchia is an action-adventure game developed by Awaceb and published by Kepler Interactive. The player controls the titular character as she explores a fictional archipelago inspired by New Caledonia. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5 on March 21, 2023.

Team Sonic Racing	Team Sonic Racing is a 2019 kart racing game developed by Sumo Digital and published by Sega. A spin-off of the Sonic the Hedgehog series, it was released for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in May 2019. A simplified version for iOS developed by Hardlight, Sonic Racing, was released via Apple Arcade in September 2019. The game was later released on Amazon Luna in March 2021. 

Tearaway Unfolded	The game takes place in a vibrant storybook-type world made entirely out of paper. The player gains control of either Iota or Atoi, a messenger tasked with delivering a letter to a portal in the sky called 'the You', which has mysteriously been opened. Along the way, the messenger must save the world from Scraps, small villainous creatures which are invading the paper world via the opening to cause disruption.

The Technomancer	The game is set during the War of Water, 200 years after human colonization of Mars. The protagonist is a rookie technomancer named Zachariah, a former delinquent from Abundance, one of the powerful water guilds on the red planet. Soon after his initiation as a technomancer, Zachariah finds himself on the run from the guild's secret police. After fleeing the city of Ophir with a group of companions, he takes refuge in the hidden merchant city of Noctis, where he begins his search for a functioning communications beacon in order to reestablish contact with Earth.

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants in Manhattan	Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants in Manhattan is an action hack and slash video game developed by PlatinumGames and published by Activision. It is inspired by IDW Publishing's Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles comic book series. It was released for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox 360, and Xbox One on May 24, 2016. Less than eight months after its release, the game was removed from sale from all digital storefronts on January 3, 2017. This was the last Nickelodeon game to be published by Activision, with the rights for the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles video game series being given to Dotemu.

Tekken 7	Tekken 7 (Japanese: 7) is a fighting game developed and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. It is the seventh main and ninth overall installment in the Tekken  series, and is the first in that series to be released for PC. Tekken 7 was released to arcades in March 2015. An updated arcade version, Tekken 7: Fated Retribution, was released in July 2016, and features expanded content including new stages, costumes, items and characters. The home versions released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in June 2017 were based on Fated Retribution.

Telling Lies	Telling Lies (stylized as telling l!es) is a narrative video game developed by Sam Barlow and Furious Bee and published by Annapurna Interactive in August 2019 for iOS, macOS, and Windows. Ports for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One were released in April 2020. As with Barlow's previous title, Her Story, the game uses live action full-motion video of four people (played by Logan Marshall-Green, Alexandra Shipp, Kerry Bish, and Angela Sarafyan) as part of video calls made between them, and the player will need to use tools provided from the game to piece together events and what statements may be lies to determine the overall mystery.

Tembo the Badass Elephant	Tembo the Badass Elephant is a 2D platform side-scrolling game in which players take control of an elephant named Tembo, as he progresses through Shell City to stop the invasion of a military force called the Phantom. The title features visuals similar to that of cartoons and comic books, and divided into three different zones with three basic levels and an enemy base, followed by a boss stage each. Each enemy base can only be unlocked by killing a set quota of enemies on previous levels. Once all three zones are completed, a fourth, last zone consisting of two levels and the final boss stage is unlocked. The major goal of every level is to reach the end of the level while destroying as much of the enemy force as possible, while innocent citizens held prisoners are scattered around the stage, waiting to be rescued as well, and a medal is awarded for rescuing all hostages in a stage.

Tempest 4000	Tempest 4000 is a shoot 'em up video game developed by Llamasoft and published by Atari, SA. It is a modern reimagining of the classic arcade game Tempest, which was released in 1981. In Tempest 4000, players control a spaceship and navigate through a series of increasingly challenging levels while fighting off waves of enemies. Tempest 4000 was released for Atari VCS, Playstation 4, Xbox One, Microsoft Windows and Nintendo Switch. 

Tennis World Tour	The game was developed by Breakpoint Studio. It was published by French publisher, Bigben Interactive, who hurried it to market when it was only 20% complete.
Speaking to French publication Le Monde, and translated by NintendoLife, BigBen founder Alain Falc said the game was "only 20% completed a few weeks before its release" but needed to be released in order to capitalise on the French Open and avoid "losing the benefit of marketing campaigns already committed" and added that BigBen "put 500,000 pieces on the market but with many distributors who have no right of return, so we know that will be profitable".

Terminator: Resistance	Terminator: Resistance is a 2019 first-person shooter game developed by Teyon and published by Reef Entertainment for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. The game is based on the Terminator franchise, set during the original future war depicted in the films The Terminator and Terminator 2: Judgment Day. It was released in Europe on 15 November 2019. In the United States, the Windows version was released a day earlier through Steam, while the other versions released on 7 January 2020. An enhanced version of the game for PlayStation 5 was released on 30 April 2021. The same version was released for Xbox Series X/S on 27 October 2023. It received generally mixed reviews from critics.

Terraria	Terraria ( /trri/ ) is a 2011 action-adventure sandbox game developed by Re-Logic. The game was first released for Windows and has since been ported to other PC and console platforms. The game features exploration, crafting, building, painting, and combat with a variety of creatures in a procedurally generated 2D world. Terraria received generally positive reviews and sold over 44 million copies by 2022, making it one of the best-selling video games.

TerraTech	A construction sandbox focusing on vehicular combat and resource management, the game offers a variety of blocks with different functions that can be combined in various ways using attach points on each, with the control block - a cab - always serving as a centrepoint. Wheel blocks in contact with ground enable driving, while wing blocks generate lift for flying and other blocks provide additional functions to the tech they are attached to. Weapons deal damage, and shields and fields protect from damage and/or apply effects, such as restoring part durability. Beside vehicles, the game enables construction of static bases anchored to the ground that are mainly used for storage and crafting. Blocks can be crafted using resources gathered from the environment and a system of resource silos, conveyors and automatic factories (all blocks themselves). Such special components can excavate, process, transfer and sell resources, but some of these work only on stationary builds (bases).

Teslagrad	Teslagrad is a 2.5D puzzle-platformer with action elements, where magnetism and other electromagnetic powers are the key to go throughout the game, and thereby discover the secrets kept in the long abandoned Tesla Tower. The game features minimal combat segments coupled with electric-based puzzle sections and precise platforming. Teslagrad is set in a steampunk-inspired version of old Europe, in a non-linear world with more than a hundred hand-drawn environments.

Tesla vs Lovecraft	Horror author H. P. Lovecraft interrupts a demonstration of Nikola Tesla's newest invention. Tesla ignores Lovecraft's warnings, only to find that Lovecraft has become possessed by Cthulhu.  Lovecraft steals all of Tesla's inventions and uses them to open a dimensional gateway for the monsters described in his fiction. Players take the role of Tesla as he fights the monsters, initially armed with conventional arms and a teleporter. Players can upgrade Tesla's weaponry as they find items, up to a mecha, and power-ups grant him brief advantages. Killing large numbers of monsters allows players to select perks, which grant special abilities during all fights on that level. Dying allows players to choose different perks, and they are reset when moving on to a new level.

Tetris Effect	The game garnered high praise from critics and was named Game of the Year by several publications. An enhanced version, named Tetris Effect: Connected, was announced for Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S and Windows 10 during Xbox Games Showcase on July 23, 2020, and was released on November 10, 2020. The expansion was made available for existing platforms in August 2021. Versions for Nintendo Switch and Amazon Luna were released in October 2021 and August 2022, respectively. A PlayStation 5 version, with support for the PlayStation VR2, was released on February 22, 2023.

Tetris Ultimate	Tetris Ultimate on Nintendo 3DS features seven modes, including a new single-player Challenge mode. Other versions offer six different game modes.

Tharsis	Tharsis is a 2016 strategy video game developed and published by Choice Provisions. It was released worldwide in January 2016 for Windows and Mac OS X through the download service Steam, as well as for PlayStation 4,  and later in April 2020 for the Nintendo Switch. The game follows a team of astronauts on the first crewed mission to Mars, in order to track down a signal that is apparently extraterrestrial in origin. After being hit by a micrometeorite storm, they must resort to desperate measures to survive the trip.

That's You!	That's You!, as with all titles on Sony's PlayLink range, allows players to use their phones and tablet devices as controllers, via a companion app, and connect to the PlayStation 4 through the host Wi-Fi network.

TheHunter: Call of the Wild	theHunter is a series of simulation video games developed by Expansive Worlds and published by its parent company, Avalanche Studios. The first game in the series, known as theHunter: Classic, was developed and published by Emote Games, in association with Avalanche Studios, and released in April 2009. Subsequently, Avalanche Studios bought the rights to the franchise and opened Expansive Worlds as a subsidiary that would exclusively focus on theHunter development. A standalone expansion, theHunter: Primal, was developed and published by Expansive Worlds and Avalanche Studios, and released on March 15, 2015. The most recent entry in the series, theHunter: Call of the Wild, was developed by Expansive Worlds and published by Avalanche Studios in February 2017.

TheHunter: Call of the Wild - 2021 Edition	theHunter is a series of simulation video games developed by Expansive Worlds and published by its parent company, Avalanche Studios. The first game in the series, known as theHunter: Classic, was developed and published by Emote Games, in association with Avalanche Studios, and released in April 2009. Subsequently, Avalanche Studios bought the rights to the franchise and opened Expansive Worlds as a subsidiary that would exclusively focus on theHunter development. A standalone expansion, theHunter: Primal, was developed and published by Expansive Worlds and Avalanche Studios, and released on March 15, 2015. The most recent entry in the series, theHunter: Call of the Wild, was developed by Expansive Worlds and published by Avalanche Studios in February 2017.

There Came an Echo	There Came an Echo is a real-time tactics video game developed for Microsoft Windows through Steam in 2015, and for PlayStation 4's PlayStation Network in 2016. It is the sequel to the 2011 video game Before the Echo. The player can use a voice control system to direct their units around the battlefield to ensure a tactical advantage over the enemy. The game features voice actors Wil Wheaton, Ashly Burch, Yuri Lowenthal, Laura Bailey and Cassandra Morris.

They Are Billions	They Are Billions is a post-apocalyptic steampunk real-time strategy survival video game developed and published by Numantian Games. Available on Microsoft Windows, it was released onto Steam's Early Access program with a survival mode in December 2017. The game was released with a campaign titled "New Empire" on June 18, 2019. PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions were published by BlitWorks on July 1, 2019.

Thief	The game is set in 'The City', a dark fantasy world inspired by Victorian, Gothic, gaslight fantasy and steampunk aesthetics. Players control Garrett, a master thief who embarks on several missions focusing on stealing from the rich. Players may approach levels in a variety of different ways; players can choose the action-oriented and lethal approach, where players will disable or kill enemies on their way to their destination, using knives and takedowns, or opt for the non-lethal stealthy approach, where players minimize interaction with non-player characters and the environment in order to avoid detection. Players may choose which path to take to their destination, as each location contains several branching paths.

Thimbleweed Park	The game is a spiritual successor to Gilbert and Winnick's previous games Maniac Mansion (1987) and The Secret of Monkey Island (1990), and is designed to be similar to graphic adventure games released in that time period, both visually and in gameplay.

This Is the Police	This Is the Police is an adventure strategy video game by Belarusian developer Weappy Studio and published by Nordic Games and EuroVideo Medien. It was first released on August 2, 2016 for Microsoft Windows, OS X and Linux, and was later released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on March 22, 2017, and for Nintendo Switch on October 24, 2017. In the game, the player controls the protagonist Jack Boyd, who is being forced into early retirement by the corrupt mayor. The game takes place in the fictional city of "Freeburg" in 1985, during Boyd's final one hundred and eighty days on the force. The game received mixed reviews.

This War of Mine: The Little Ones	This War of Mine is a war survival video game developed and published by the Polish game development company 11 Bit Studios. The game, inspired by the siege of Sarajevo among other conflicts, differs from most war-themed video games by focusing on the civilian experience of war rather than front line combat. Characters have to make many difficult decisions in order to survive everyday dangers. There are various endings for each character, depending on the decisions made in the game. The game has received multiple DLCs and sold over 9 million units worldwide across multiple platforms.

Thomas Was Alone	Thomas Was Alone is a puzzle-platform game created by Mike Bithell, originally released as a Flash-based browser game in October 2010. The game was expanded and released for Microsoft Windows and OS X in July 2012. It has subsequently been released for Linux, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Xbox One, Wii U, iOS, Android and Nintendo Switch. In the game, the player controls one or more simple rectangles representing several out-of-control artificial intelligence entities, working with the shapes to get each to their individual end points on each level. Each shape is characterized by a unique name and personality, including the eponymous Thomas, which is conveyed to the player through the use of a narrator voiced by Danny Wallace, whose performance earned the game a BAFTA Games Award.

Thumper	The objective of Thumper is to guide a beetle-like creature along a single or multi-track through a series of unnerving worlds.  The player must press a button to hit lit "notes" on the track in time with the background music, while also bracing against obstacles, turning against curved walls, jumping over spikes, and defeating enemies.  The game is played in a third-person point of view with an extremely fast scrolling speed.

Timespinner	A sequel, Timespinner 2: Unwoven Dream, was announced on September 25, 2023.  The release date has not been announced.

Tiny Metal	A follow-up, Tiny Metal: Full Metal Rumble, was released in July 2019 on Nintendo Switch and PC.

Tiny Tina's Wonderlands	Similar to its predecessors, the game is a first-person shooter with elements of an action role-playing game. The game can be played solo or with up to three other players in online or local split-screen multiplayer. The game is set within the world of a fantasy-themed tabletop role-playing game. The game features an overworld, which is used by the playable characters to traverse the various locations in the game. There are random combat encounters and quests that can only be completed in the overworld.

Tiny Troopers: Joint Ops	The player controls tiny troopers as they battle enemies around the world with special weapons, collect items, and declare victory.

Titan Attacks!	The game received mixed reviews from critics, commending its art style and addictiveness but citing its small amount of content and problems with the 3DS port of the game. It was followed by a sequel, Revenge of the Titans, in 2010.

Titan Souls	Titan Souls is a 2015 action-adventure game developed by Acid Nerve and published by Devolver Digital. It was released for Windows, OS X, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Android. Titan Souls received generally positive reviews and has been cited as an early example of a Soulslike, a game genre directly inspired by the Dark Souls series.

Titanfall 2	Titanfall 2 is a first-person shooter video game, developed by Respawn Entertainment and published by Electronic Arts. A sequel to 2014's Titanfall, the game was released worldwide on October 28, 2016, for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. In Titanfall 2, players control Titans, mecha-style exoskeletons and their pilots, who are agile and equipped with a variety of skills ranging from wall-running to cloaking. Set in a science fiction universe, the single-player campaign follows the story of Jack Cooper, a rifleman from the Frontier Militia, who bonds with his mentor's Titan BT-7274 after his mentor is killed in action. Together, they embark on a quest to stop the Interstellar Manufacturing Corporation (IMC) from using a superweapon to destroy the Militia base on the planet Harmony.

Toby: The Secret Mine	Toby: The Secret Mine is a side-scrolling puzzle platformer with black silhouette graphics. The gameplay is very similar to Limbo but its atmosphere is much less dark and world is much more colorful. The player controls Toby throughout the game, guiding him through multiple levels set in varied environments such as forests, caves, a mine, blizzard etc. There are puzzles on the route that the player must solve to progress. There are also multiple traps that the player can easily overlook unless alert. These traps vary in each environment with the blizzard levels focussing heavily on timed platforming. There are also kidnapped friends that are hidden throughout the levels adding an element of exploration. The game consists of 21 separate levels in all.

ToeJam & Earl: Back in the Groove	It is the first new entry in the series since 2002's  ToeJam & Earl III: Mission to Earth, as well as the first entry that Sega had no involvement with. The physical release features a standard red cover design as well as a purple cover variant sold exclusively through Best Buy.

Toki	The player must traverse several levels with a miniboss at the end. Despite his apparent handicap, his slowness as an ape, and the fact that almost any attack can kill him, Toki is able to spit powerful shots that will help him in defeating enemies and obstacles that try to slow him down in his mission. There is a timer for each stage.

Toki Tori 2+	An updated version called Toki Tori 2+ was released for the Wii U in September 2013, adding new music and puzzles. Toki Tori 2+ made its Linux debut with Humble Bundle X launched on January 3, 2014. The game was later released in Japan and published by Rainy Frog on September 3, 2014. Toki Tori 2+ launched for the Nintendo Switch on February 23, 2018.

Tokyo 42	Tokyo 42 is an action video game developed by Smac Games and published by Mode 7 Games, released on May 31, 2017, for Microsoft Windows and Xbox One platforms along with a two part official soundtrack by Beat Vince, and released on August 15, 2017 for PlayStation 4. The player takes the role of an assassin and uses attacks, dodges and stealth to pursue targets. The game is presented in a minimalist, low-poly, isometric perspective.

Tokyo Dark: Remembrance	Tokyo Dark is a point-and-click adventure game developed by the indie developer Cherrymochi and published by Square Enix Collective for Microsoft Windows and macOS. It follows the story of Detective It Ayami who searches for her missing partner, Detective Kazuki Tanaka, who disappeared under mysterious circumstances while following a case. The players choices directly affect Ayamis mental state and thought processes which later result in one of the games multiple endings.

Tokyo Ghoul: re Call to Exist	Tokyo Ghoul: re Call to Exist is a third-person survival action game in which players can choose to be on the side of ghouls or investigators, with playable characters including Haise Sasaki, Ken Kaneki, Ktar Amon, Kish Arima, Tuka Kirishima, and Sh Tsukiyama. The game has an online multiplayer mode.

Tokyo Xanadu eX+	Tokyo Xanadu is a 2015 action role-playing game developed by Nihon Falcom. The game was developed out of Nihon Falcom's desire to create a game of a different type and setting than their other role-playing game franchises, The Legend of Heroes and Ys. The game was first released in Japan for the PlayStation Vita in September 2015, and worldwide in June 2017. 

Tomb Raider	Tomb Raider is a 2013 action-adventure game developed by Crystal Dynamics and published by Square Enix's European branch. It is the tenth main entry and a reboot of the Tomb Raider series, acting as the first instalment in the Survivor trilogy that reconstructs the origins of Lara Croft. The game was released for PlayStation 3, Windows, and Xbox 360 on 5 March 2013. Gameplay focuses on survival, with exploration when traversing the island and visiting various optional tombs. It is the first game in the main series to have multiplayer and the first game in the series to be published by Square Enix after the latter's acquisition of Eidos Interactive in 2009.

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Breakpoint	Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Breakpoint is an online tactical shooter video game developed by Ubisoft Paris and published by Ubisoft. The game was released worldwide on 4 October 2019 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, and on 18 December 2019 for Stadia. The game is the eleventh installment in the Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon franchise and is a narrative sequel to the 2017 video game Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Wildlands.

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Wildlands	The game moves away from the futuristic setting introduced in Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter and instead features a setting similar to the original Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon. Ubisoft described it as one of the biggest open world games that they have published, with the game world including a wide variety of environments such as mountains, forests, deserts, and salt flats.

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Extraction	Rainbow Six Extraction is a cooperative multiplayer game that can support up to three players. In Extraction, the operators must infiltrate an alien-infested location and complete objectives, such as collecting samples, extracting materials from computers, and gathering intel. Each play session, known as an "incursion", is made up of three interconnected sub-maps, and players will be assigned any one of the twelve objectives randomly in each sub-map. The location of the objectives and the placement of enemies are procedurally generated. Once the player secured their objective, they can choose to extract themselves, or explore the next sub-map. A new area can be more difficult than the previous, but players receive more rewards by completing them successfully. Extracting early ensures the safety of operators. If an operator is taken down by an enemy, they will become missing in action or Inactive, and players cannot play as them until they have rescued them in an extraction mission. Characters which are severely injured in the previous mission will also remain hurt and will only recover slowly.

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Siege	Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege is an online tactical shooter video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It was released worldwide for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on December 1, 2015; the game was also released for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S exactly five years later on December 1, 2020. The title received a port for Google Stadia on June 30, 2021, and one for Amazon Luna in January 2022. The game puts heavy emphasis on environmental destruction and cooperation between players. Each player assumes control of an attacker or a defender in different gameplay modes such as rescuing a hostage, defusing a bomb, and taking control of an objective within a room. The title has no campaign but features a series of short, offline missions called, "situations" that can be played solo. These missions have a loose narrative, focusing on recruits going through training to prepare them for future encounters with the "White Masks", a terrorist group that threatens the safety of the world.

Tom Clancy's The Division	Tom Clancy's The Division received generally positive reviews. A sequel, Tom Clancy's The Division 2, was released in March 2019.

Tom Clancy's The Division 2	It received generally favorable reviews from critics, with most noting it as an improvement over the first installment for its setting, gameplay, visuals, combat and soundtrack, though the endgame content polarised critics. Like its predecessor, it was a commercial success, selling over 10 million copies worldwide despite not meeting expectations at launch.

Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 1+2	Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 1 + 2 is a 2020 skateboarding video game developed by Vicarious Visions and published by Activision. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on September 4, 2020, PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S on March 26, 2021, and Nintendo Switch on June 25 of the same year. It is a remake of the first two games in the Tony Hawk's series: Tony Hawk's Pro Skater (1999) and Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 (2000), which were originally developed by Neversoft. It is the first major console game in the series since Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 5 (2015) and is Vicarious Visions' final work as a subsidiary of Activision before it was merged into Blizzard Entertainment on January 22, 2021.

Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 5	Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 5 is a 2015 skateboarding video game developed in a collaboration between Robomodo and Disruptive Games, and published by Activision. The tenth main installment in the Tony Hawk's series, the game is the first new title in the main series since 2007's Proving Ground and the first Pro Skater since 2002's Pro Skater 4, as the series had been put on hold following a lack of critical and commercial success with later games.

Tony Stewart's Sprint Car Racing	Tony Stewart's Sprint Car Racing is a racing simulator, where players can race three different types of sprint cars through 24 fantasy tracks. In career mode, players start in the All-Star TQ Midgets and have to race their way up to the 410 Winged Sprint Cars in the All Star Circuit of Champions. There is also a 24-player online mode and an offline split-screen mode for multiplayer.

Tools Up!	In Tools Up!, the players take the role of a home renovator. The goal is to renovate apartments within the time limit while the owners are away. They must complete tasks like painting, cleaning, moving furniture and redecorating. The game has two modes: Campaign Mode and the Party Mode, and up to four players can play together.

Tooth and Tail	Tooth and Tail is a real-time strategy video game developed and published by indie development team Pocketwatch Games, the company behind Monaco: What's Yours Is Mine. Tooth and Tail was released in September 2017 for Windows, MacOS, Linux and PlayStation 4.

Torchlight II	Torchlight II takes place in a fantasy world where the player character can be any of four classes, each with different skills and abilities. The plot starts with the destruction of the town of Torchlight, at the hands of the Alchemist from the first game, and has the character following the trail of destruction left in the Alchemist's wake as he searches for a cure to his illness which has driven him insane. The sequel to the first game was originally going to be an MMORPG however Torchlight II was released with both single-player and multi-player support, as the company felt they could release this much faster than the planned MMO. The game received mostly positive reviews from critics. A sequel, Torchlight III, was released in 2020.

Torchlight III	Torchlight III is a dungeon crawler where the player controls a character in a high fantasy world. From an isometric, top-down view, the player controls their character to move about the game's world, using hack and slash with a variety of weapons, magic spells, and skills to fight monsters, collect new items and treasure, and sell and buy items in a centralized town to improve their character's abilities.

Toren	In Toren, the player controls the Moonchild, a girl born in a magic tower, and who has the goal to reach the top of it. The game begins with her as a baby; she grows up and develops as she goes up the tower's levels, solving puzzles and avoiding traps until defeating the dragon that lives at the top of the tower. Moonchild has visions about a wizard, her own origin and tower's nature.

Torment: Tides of Numenera	The game takes place in The Ninth World, a science fantasy campaign setting written by Monte Cook for his tabletop RPG Numenera. It uses the Unity game engine. Torment: Tides of Numenera, like its predecessor, is primarily story-driven while placing greater emphasis on interaction with the world and characters, with combat and item accumulation taking a secondary role.

Tormented Souls	Tormented Souls is a 2021 survival horror video game developed by Dual Effect and published by PQube for the. The PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions were cancelled in February 2021 but were eventually released in February 2022. A sequel, Tormented Souls 2, is set to be released in 2024.

Totally Reliable Delivery Service	tinyBuild Inc. is an American publisher of indie games based in Bellevue, Washington. The company was established by Alex Nichiporchik and Tom Brien in 2011 to expand Brien's game No Time to Explain into a commercial release. Building from the success of the game's Steam release in 2013, tinyBuild partnered with DoubleDutch Games for the development and release of SpeedRunners, which landed tinyBuild further publishing deals. Since March 2020, the company has been founding or acquiring new studios to expand. It became a public company on the Alternative Investment Market in March 2021.

Toukiden 2	Toukiden 2 (2) is a 2016 action role-playing game developed by Omega Force and published by Koei Tecmo for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation Vita. The game is the sequel to Toukiden: The Age of Demons.

Toukiden: Kiwami	Toukiden: The Age of Demons (, Tkiden) is an action role-playing game developed by Omega Force for the PlayStation Portable and PlayStation Vita. It was released on June 27, 2013 in Japan. Tecmo Koei Games showcased the PlayStation Vita version of the game at E3 2013, and released the game within North America on February 11, 2014 exclusively on PlayStation Vita. A sequel titled Toukiden 2 was released in 2016 on the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita.

The Touryst	While working on Fast RMX, the development team wanted to create an adventure game based around the concept of strange things happening on a vacation. The gameplay was designed so that the player could choose to play the activities that interested them. The voxel visual style was inspired by NES and SNES games, but in 3D environments. Shin'en used the voxel editor Magicavoxel to create the game's models, which were then imported into Maya. The game was designed with Shin'en's in-house engine, allowing the developers to focus on optimizing for a smooth framerate. Development on the game took around three years to complete.

TowerFall Ascension	TowerFall is an action indie video game created by Maddy Thorson through her company Maddy Makes Games. In the game, players control up to four archers in a multiplayer platform fighter. It was released on the Ouya microconsole in June 2013 and was later ported to PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Linux, OS X, and Windows as TowerFall Ascension and to the Nintendo Switch under its original title of TowerFall.

Tower of Guns	Tower of Guns is a first-person shooter that takes place in a tower filled with a variety of guns. The player must ascend the tower by advancing through a series of randomized areas. Each area contains a number of arenas and a boss fight that the player must clear to advance. At the beginning of every run, one of several "stories" is selected at random, ranging from a soldier ordered by his superiors to climb the Tower of Guns, to a gun-toting barbarian guide protecting an evil priest on his way to a dark ritual at the top of the tower, to an "inebriated scholar" trying to get to a friend's home who has confused the Tower of Guns for his friend's apartment building. Aside from on-screen text appearing at the beginning and ending of every level, these stories do not impact the gameplay in any significant way, and can in fact be toggled off at the beginning of a run.

The Town of Light	The Town of Light is a psychological horror adventure game developed by LKA and published by Wired Productions. It was released for PC on February 26, 2016 and PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on June 6, 2017. On February 1, 2018, a Nintendo Switch version was confirmed. This version was released on February 7, 2020.

Toy Soldiers: Cold War HD	Toy Soldiers: Cold War features similar gameplay to the original game, with players trying to repel a Soviet invasion across a diorama towards a toybox in a child's bedroom. Compared to the original game which featured generic World War I battlefields, diorama settings range from jungles and deserts to real world locations such as the streets of Paris and the Great Pyramids.

Toy Soldiers HD	Players control one of two armies of miniature toy soldiers on a World War I model diorama with wooden and plastic landscapes. The diorama is set in various locations, such as a child's bedroom, library and lounge, and objects such as dressers and reading lamps are occasionally visible in the background. The game features 50 different controllable units including machine guns, mortars and tanks, with the fixed emplacements being upgradable to more powerful versions.

Toy Soldiers: War Chest	War Chest is the first title in the series not to be a Microsoft console exclusive.

TrackMania Turbo	TrackMania Turbo is a racing video game developed by Ubisoft Nadeo and published by Ubisoft. Announced at E3 2015, the title is the first TrackMania game released on consoles since 2009's TrackMania: Build to Race on the Wii. The game features support for virtual reality.  The game was originally set to be released on 3 November 2015, but was delayed to 22 March 2016 to give additional time to the development team to further polish the game.

Trailmakers	Trailmakers is a sandbox video game developed and published by Danish independent developer Flashbulb Games. The game is a 3D physics-based vehicle construction simulator with open world exploration elements. The game was made available for early access on Steam on 30 January 2018, and fully released on 18 September 2019 for PC and Xbox One. The game was released for PlayStation 4 on 21 May 2020.

Train Sim World	Train Sim World (abbreviated to TSW) is a train simulation game series developed by Dovetail Games. There have been seven iterations since the initial Train Sim World: CSX Heavy Haul in 2017. The most recent, in 2023, was Train Sim World 4. 

Train Sim World 2	Train Sim World (abbreviated to TSW) is a train simulation game series developed by Dovetail Games. There have been seven iterations since the initial Train Sim World: CSX Heavy Haul in 2017. The most recent, in 2023, was Train Sim World 4. 

Train Sim World 2020	Train Sim World (abbreviated to TSW) is a train simulation game series developed by Dovetail Games. There have been seven iterations since the initial Train Sim World: CSX Heavy Haul in 2017. The most recent, in 2023, was Train Sim World 4. 

Transference	Transference is about a family struggling with some serious issues. It is set inside a corrupted simulation made by a brilliant but "troubled" scientist named Raymond (Macon Blair). From the perspective of different family members, the simulation is constructed from the "brain data" of Raymond, his wife Katherine (Lindsay Burdge), and their young son Benjamin (Tyler Crumley), as they move through their home, discover their secrets and collect the evidence that they need to repair their lives.

Transformers: Devastation	Transformers: Devastation is an action hack and slash video game based on the Transformers franchise developed by PlatinumGames and published by Activision. In the game, players control five Autobots as they battle to stop a Decepticon plot to turn the Earth to metal. Several creatives who worked on past Transformers media, including writers, actors, and musicians, contributed to the game's development.

Transformers: Fall of Cybertron	Transformers: Fall of Cybertron is a third-person shooter video game based on the Transformers franchise, developed by High Moon Studios and published by Activision. It is the sequel to the 2010 video game Transformers: War for Cybertron, and directly follows the events of that game, as the Autobots struggle to defeat their Decepticon foes in a civil war for their home planet of Cybertron. The game was released on August 21, 2012, in North America and on August 24, 2012, in Europe for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360. In 2016, it was released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on August 8, in Australia and on August 9, in North America. Mercenary Technology developed the game's Windows version, while Fun Labs developed the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions.

Transformers: Rise of the Dark Spark	The game was developed primarily by Edge of Reality, with the Nintendo 3DS version developed by WayForward Technologies. It was published by Activision and released worldwide in June 2014 for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo 3DS, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Wii U, Xbox 360, and Xbox One. Rise of the Dark Spark received mixed-to-negative reviews.

Transistor	In Transistor, the player controls Red, a popular singer in the city of Cloudbank, as she moves through the sci-fi-themed cityscape and battles robotic enemies collectively known as the Process. The game is presented through an isometric camera and features both real-time combat and a frozen, turned-based mode. The player is armed with a greatsword-like weapon, the titular Transistor, through which various powers called Functions are used against the enemies.

Transport Giant	JoWooD Entertainment AG (formerly JoWooD Productions Software AG, commonly referred to as JoWooD) was an Austrian video game publisher that was founded in 1995. JoWooD went into administration in 2011 and all assets were purchased by Nordic Games.

Travis Strikes Again: No More Heroes	Travis Strikes Again: No More Heroes received mixed reviews upon release, with critics praising its story and imaginative presentation, while finding the game play aspects repetitive. Five months after the game's initial release, No More Heroes III was announced at E3 2019, acting as a follow-up to the game, and a proper sequel to the series, released on the Nintendo Switch on August 27, 2021.

Trials of Mana Remake	Trials of Mana is a 2020 action role-playing game developed by Xeen and published by Square Enix for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Windows. A mobile port released the following year. It is a 3D remake of the 1995 Super Famicom title of the same name, the third game in the Mana series. The story follows six possible protagonists in their respective quests, which lead them to obtain the Mana Sword and fight a world-ending threat. In gameplay, the player controls three out of six characters, navigating field environments, fighting enemies in real-time combat, and making use of character classes. New to the gameplay and storyline is a post-game chapter with an unlockable class.

Trials Fusion	Trials Fusion was generally well received upon release. Critics praised the level design, controls, graphics, the futuristic setting, and the amount of content, but criticized the lack of tutorials for the game's create mode, and its similarity to past Trials games. By February 2015, the game had sold over 1.7 million units.

Trials of the Blood Dragon	The player controls Blood Dragon's protagonist Rex Power Colt's kids Roxanne and Slayter as they ride on a physics-based motorcycle from the start of the level to the end while navigating a number of obstacles. The game introduces a grappling hook and gameplay segments in which players need to disembark from their bike and use guns to shoot enemies or utilise stealth to avoid hostile attention. The game features 27 levels.

Trials Rising	Trials Rising is a 2.5D racing game developed by Ubisoft RedLynx and Ubisoft Kyiv and published by Ubisoft. It was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in February 2019, for Stadia in November 2019, and for Amazon Luna in December 2020. It is the first mainline entry in the Trials series since 2014's Trials Fusion, and the first in the series to be released on a Nintendo console.

Tricky Towers	Tricky Towers is a physics based tower building game puzzle video game that uses a form of the block-stacking problem as the central game mechanic. It was released on digital distribution service Steam for Windows, OS X, and Linux, and for the PlayStation Plus service in August 2016, before being released on PlayStation 4 a month later. It was released on Xbox One on September 18, 2017, and on the Nintendo Switch on October 11, 2018.

Trine: Enchanted Edition	A sequel, titled Trine 2, was released in 2011. A remake of Trine, titled Trine: Enchanted Edition, was released in 2014. The enchanted edition uses Trine 2's updated engine, and includes online multiplayer. The third installment in the series, Trine 3: The Artifacts of Power, was released on August 20, 2015. A fourth installment, Trine 4: The Nightmare Prince, was released on October 8, 2019. A fifth installment, Trine 5: A Clockwork Conspiracy, was released August 31, 2023.

Trine 2: Complete Story	Trine 2 is a puzzle-platform game, requiring the player to use the skills of the three characters, Amadeus the wizard, Zoya the thief, and Pontius the knight, to navigate each game level. As with the first game, the mystical "Trine" has bound the three characters together into one common entity, and thus the player controls only one character which can be switched to the other two at any time. Each of the characters has unique abilities: Amadeus can use magic to grab onto certain objects in the game world, and create boxes and planks to be used to get around; Zoya can strike at objects with her arrows, and grapple onto certain surfaces; and Pontius is strong in combat against foes, can bash apart walls, and deflect projectiles with his shield. A combination of these elements is necessary to complete each stage in the game's world.

Trine 3: The Artifacts of Power	Similar to its predecessors, Trine 3: The Artifacts of Power is an action-adventure platform game with puzzle elements, which requires the players to utilize the skills of three different returning characters: Pontius, Amadeus and Zoya. Abilities varied among characters. Pontius is a knight equipped with a sword and a shield to defend himself against enemies. Zoya is a thief that is equipped with arrows and a grappling hook, while Amadeus is a wizard that has the ability to manipulate and levitate objects.  Players can swap between the three playable characters freely during the campaign. Trine 3 is the first game in the series to feature 3D gameplay, while the 2D gameplay remains the game's focus as with previous installments. The game also includes three-player co-operative multiplayer, special challenge levels and a level editor.

Trine 4: The Nightmare Prince	Trine 4 refines the gameplay of the previous installments. It is a 2D platformer with a focus on physics puzzles. The abilities available to the player for solving puzzles include conjuring boxes, attaching ropes to objects, and telekinesis.

Trivial Pursuit Live!	This is a list of Trivial Pursuit editions and their trivia categories.

Tron RUN/r	The soundtrack was written and composed by Giorgio Moroder and Raney Shockne. It was released on May 31, 2016 and included remixes from Autechre, Plaid, Rusko, Bibio, Darkstar, patten and Christopher Nicholls; most of these artists are associated with the record label Warp.

Tropico 5	Tropico 5 is a construction and management simulation video game developed by Haemimont Games. It was released for Microsoft Windows in May 2014, with versions for Linux, OS X and Xbox 360 released later in 2014 as well as versions for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One released in April 2015 and May 2016 respectively.

Tropico 6	As in the other games in the series, the player assumes the role of "El Presidente", the leader of the Caribbean island nation of Tropico. Similarly to Tropico 5, there are four eras: The Colonial era, the World Wars era, the Cold War era, and the modern era. Unlike previous games in the series, where Tropico consisted of only one island, Tropico 6 allows players to build on an archipelago of smaller islands, allowing players to build bridges (in the World Wars era and later) from their starting island to the other islands in the chain.

Truck Driver	Soedesco (stylized in all caps) is a Dutch video game publisher of both digital and physical games on multiple platforms. The company has been active in the game industry since 2002 and ventured into publishing in 2014, with the headquarters in Rotterdam, Netherlands. Soedesco's portfolio consists of a wide range of genres and includes titles such as Monstrum, Owlboy, Among the Sleep, Monster Crown, Teslagrad and Remothered: Tormented Fathers. The company has also published its own IPs including Truck Driver, Adam's Venture, and Real Farm. Soedesco consists of four different divisions: Communications, Creative, Producing and Development.

Tsukihime: A Piece of Blue Glass Moon	Tsukihime (Japanese: , lit. "Moon Princess") is a Japanese adult visual novel game created by Type-Moon, who first released it at the Winter Comiket in December 2000. In 2003, it was adapted into both an anime television series, Lunar Legend Tsukihime, animated by J.C.Staff, and a manga series, which was serialized between 2003 and 2010 in MediaWorks shnen magazine Dengeki Daioh, with ten volumes released.

TumbleSeed	TumbleSeed is an indie action video game, created by developer Benedict Fritz and designer Greg Wohlwend, in which the player balances a rolling seed on an ascending, horizontally slanted vine past procedurally generated obstacles to reach the top of a mountain. It is based on the mechanical arcade game Ice Cold Beer and built partially through the Cards Against Humanity game incubation program. TumbleSeed was released in May 2017 to generally favorable reviews on MacOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Windows platforms. Critics, in particular, appreciated their haptic sense of the rolling seed from the Nintendo Switch's sensitive HD Rumble. Many reviewers noted TumbleSeed's intense and sometimes uneven difficulty, which the developers hoped to address in a post-release update. They credited this stigma and a tepid critical reception for the game's slow sales, but were proud of their work.

The Turing Test	The Turing Test is a puzzle video game with gameplay experienced from a first-person perspective. The player assumes the role of Ava Turing, an International Space Agency (ISA) engineer working at a research station located on Europa, one of Jupiter's moons.

Turrican Flashback	Turrican is a 1990 video game developed by Manfred Trenz. It was developed for the Commodore 64 by Rainbow Arts, and was ported to other systems later. In addition to concept design and character creation, Trenz programmed Turrican on the Commodore 64. A sequel, Turrican II: The Final Fight, followed in 1991 for the Commodore 64 and other platforms.

Twin Mirror	Twin Mirror is a 2020 adventure game developed and published by Dontnod Entertainment. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on 1 December 2020. It received mixed reviews from critics.

Two Point Campus	Two Point Campus is a  business simulation game developed by Two Point Studios and published by Sega. It is a successor to Two Point Hospital (2018) and tasks the player to build and manage a university campus. The game was released for Linux, macOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S on 9 August 2022.  An expansion titled "Space Academy" was released on 6 December 2022. The game received positive reviews upon release.

Two Point Hospital	Two Point Hospital is a 2018 business simulation game developed by Two Point Studios and published by Sega for Linux, macOS, and Windows. Console versions for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One were released in February 2020. A version for Amazon Luna was made available in November 2020. A spiritual successor to Bullfrog Productions' 1997 game Theme Hospital, players are tasked with constructing and operating an empire of hospitals in the fictional Two Point County, with the goal of curing patients of fictitious, comical ailments. Since visiting real hospitals is often unpleasant, the emphasis on humour to lighten the mood was deemed important by the developers. The game was designed and developed by some of the creators of Theme Hospital, including Mark Webley and Gary Carr.

Ty the Tasmanian Tiger HD	Ty the Tasmanian Tiger is a 2002 platform video game developed by Krome Studios and published by Electronic Arts for the GameCube, PlayStation 2 and Xbox systems. The game was remastered in HD for Microsoft Windows and was made available through Steam in 2016. A remastered version published by Krome Studios was also developed for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. The Nintendo Switch version released in North America in March 2020, and in Europe, Australia, and New Zealand the following month. The PlayStation 4 version was released on 25 July 2020. The Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S version was released on 14 October 2020.

Ty the Tasmanian Tiger 2: Bush Rescue HD	The game was remastered in high-definition for Microsoft Windows and was made available through Steam in 2017. On January 14, 2021, Krome Studios announced the start of a Kickstarter campaign to fund the remastered versions for release on Nintendo Switch, Xbox One, and PlayStation 4. Reaching their target goal in less than 24 hours, the game was released on March 30, 2021 for the Nintendo Switch, on June 23, 2021 for the Xbox One and on June 30, 2021 for the PlayStation 4.

Type: Rider	The game won the award for Artistic Consistency at the 2013 European Indie Game Days.

Typoman	Typoman features a number of environmental puzzles that are solved by crafting words that are relevant to the situation. For example, players can spell "up" to activate an elevator, or "open" to open a door. Situations become increasingly complicated as the game progresses, requiring the player to come up with puns to manipulate items.

Ultimate Chicken Horse	Ultimate Chicken Horse is a multiplayer competitive platform video game developed and published by Canadian studio Clever Endeavour Games. It was released for Microsoft Windows on 4 March 2016, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in December 2017, and Nintendo Switch on 25 September 2018.

Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3	Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3 is a crossover fighting game developed by Capcom in collaboration with Eighting. It is an updated version of Marvel vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds. The game features characters from both Capcom's video game franchises and comic book series published by Marvel Comics. The game was released in November 2011 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, and was featured as a launch title for the PlayStation Vita in 2012. The game was later ported to PlayStation 4 in December 2016, and Windows and Xbox One in March 2017.

Ultra Street Fighter IV	The coin-operated arcade game version was released in Japan on July 18, 2008, with North American arcades importing the machines by August. The console versions for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 were released in Japan on February 12, 2009, and were sold in North American stores as early as February 16, with a February 18 intended release date. 

Ultratron	The game received mixed reviews from critics, praising the art style and gameplay, but criticizing its short length and lack of complexity.

Umbrella Corps	The single-player portion, "The Experiment", takes place in 2012 and 2013. It follows an agent codenamed 3A-7. The organization he belongs to, the Umbrella Co., is revealed to have the full name of the "Umbrella Corporation" in Resident Evil 7: Biohazard; a new organization using Umbrella's name. He is sent on missions by superiors in order to test out new equipment such as the Zombie Jammer. Once the testing is successful, his superiors try to kill him by sending him on more dangerous missions. The Experiment ends with 3A-7 overcoming all odds and surviving all of the missions, scaring his superiors.

Umihara Kawase BaZooKa	The game was an independent collaboration between developer Kiyoshi Sakai, illustrator Toshinobu Kondo, and several others. It was published by TNN, "Think about Needs of Notice for human being".

Umihara Kawase Fresh!	The game was an independent collaboration between developer Kiyoshi Sakai, illustrator Toshinobu Kondo, and several others. It was published by TNN, "Think about Needs of Notice for human being".

Umineko When They Cry	Umineko When They Cry (Japanese: , Hepburn: Umineko no Naku Koro ni, lit. "When the Seagulls Cry") is a Japanese djin soft visual novel series produced by 07th Expansion. Its first episode debuted at Comiket 72 for Windows in August 2007. The story focuses on a group of eighteen people on a secluded island for a period of two days, and the mysterious murders that befall them. Readers are challenged to discern whether the murders were committed by a human or some other, supernatural source, as well as the method and motive behind them. The eight main Umineko games are split into two sets of four, which are considered the third and fourth titles in the When They Cry series, preceded by the two sets of Higurashi When They Cry games and followed by Ciconia When They Cry.

The Uncertain: Last Quiet Day	In a post-apocalyptic future, sentient robots take over the world.  Players control RT-217NP, a robot who scavenges the remnants of human technology.  The game is played from a third-person perspective, and players hear RT-217NP's thoughts on human society as they interact with the world.  After completing various puzzles involving gathering parts to repair technology, players discover that humans are not extinct, as thought.  RT-217NP joins a group of rebels who seek to rescue the humans.  After this point, players are given more freedom to explore, and they can speak to various characters, choosing dialogue options.

The Uncertain: Light at the End	In a post-apocalyptic future, sentient robots take over the world.  Players control RT-217NP, a robot who scavenges the remnants of human technology.  The game is played from a third-person perspective, and players hear RT-217NP's thoughts on human society as they interact with the world.  After completing various puzzles involving gathering parts to repair technology, players discover that humans are not extinct, as thought.  RT-217NP joins a group of rebels who seek to rescue the humans.  After this point, players are given more freedom to explore, and they can speak to various characters, choosing dialogue options.

Uncharted 4: A Thief's End	Uncharted 4: A Thief's End is a 2016 action-adventure game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. It is the fourth main entry in the Uncharted series. Set several years after the events of Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception, players control Nathan Drake, a former treasure hunter coaxed out of retirement by his presumed-dead brother Samuel. With Nathan's longtime partner, Victor Sullivan, they search for clues to the location of Henry Avery's long-lost treasure. A Thief's End is played from a third-person perspective, and incorporates platformer elements. Players solve puzzles and use firearms, melee combat, and stealth to combat enemies. In the online multiplayer mode, up to ten players engage in co-operative and competitive modes.

Uncharted: The Lost Legacy	Uncharted: The Lost Legacy is a 2017 action-adventure game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment, serving as a standalone expansion to Uncharted 4: A Thief's End. Players control Chloe Frazer, who seeks the Tusk of Ganesh in the Western Ghats mountain ranges of India, with the help of ex-mercenary Nadine Ross, and prevent a ruthless warlord and his army of insurgents from igniting a civil war in the country. It is the first Uncharted game not to feature series protagonist Nathan Drake. Like other Uncharted games, The Lost Legacy is played from a third-person perspective; players use firearms and can use melee combat and stealth to defend against enemies. Players solve puzzles, incorporating several platformer elements to advance the narrative, and navigate the game world on foot or by vehicle.

Uncharted: The Nathan Drake Collection	Development of The Nathan Drake Collection began in 2014, and required the largest team ever assembled by Bluepoint. To take advantage of the greater capabilities of the console, Bluepoint were able to remodel elements of the gameplay, including the shooting and grenade mechanics, some controls, and the camera schemes. In-game cutscenes were overhauled to improve lighting, visuals, and character models, while online leaderboards and motion blur were introduced. The Nathan Drake Collection only contains the single-player story modes, with all multiplayer content absent.

Uncharted Waters Online: Gran Atlas	Uncharted Waters Online is available on the Windows platform in English, simplified Chinese, traditional Chinese, Japanese and Korean. Six years after the initial Asian release, Netmarble published the game, under its traditional English title, for the non-Asian market in North America and Europe. The official English site was opened in August 2010. The closed beta test was conducted from August 25 to September 6, followed by its open beta test October 1. The game was officially launched on October 7. In November 2013, the global Netmarble service ended and was transferred to OGPlanet. In September 2017, the OGPlanet service ended and was transferred to Papaya Play, with a complete reset.

Under Night In-Birth Exe:Late cl-r	The first entry in the series, Under Night In-Birth, was released exclusively as an arcade game using Sega's RingEdge 2 arcade board on September 20, 2012 by Sega in Japan. In March 2013, support for Sega's ALL.net P-Ras Multi service was added. A major revision, subsequently entitled Under Night In-Birth Exe:Late (, And naito invsu ekusereito), was released on September 9, 2013. This updated version of the game would receive a port published by Arc System Works for PlayStation 3 in Japan on July 24, 2014. A 2015 release for North America and Europe was later announced, with the North American version published by Aksys Games on February 24, 2015 and the European version released by NIS America on February 27, 2015. Exe:Late was released on Steam for Microsoft Windows systems on July 12, 2016.

Under Night In-Birth Exe:Latest	The first entry in the series, Under Night In-Birth, was released exclusively as an arcade game using Sega's RingEdge 2 arcade board on September 20, 2012 by Sega in Japan. In March 2013, support for Sega's ALL.net P-Ras Multi service was added. A major revision, subsequently entitled Under Night In-Birth Exe:Late (, And naito invsu ekusereito), was released on September 9, 2013. This updated version of the game would receive a port published by Arc System Works for PlayStation 3 in Japan on July 24, 2014. A 2015 release for North America and Europe was later announced, with the North American version published by Aksys Games on February 24, 2015 and the European version released by NIS America on February 27, 2015. Exe:Late was released on Steam for Microsoft Windows systems on July 12, 2016.

Undertale	Undertale is a 2015 2D role-playing video game created by American indie developer Toby Fox. The player controls a child named Frisk who has fallen into the Underground: a large, secluded region under the surface of the Earth, separated by a magical barrier. The player meets various monsters during the journey back to the surface, although some monsters might engage the player in a fight. The combat system involves the player navigating through mini-bullet hell attacks by the opponent. They can opt to pacify or subdue monsters in order to spare them instead of killing them. These choices affect the game, with the dialogue, characters, and story changing based on outcomes.

Unepic	Unepic has been translated into over 10 languages, and is available on Steam, Desura, GOG.com, Xbox One, Wii U, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita and  Nintendo Switch.

Unexplored	Unexplored is a series of two roguelike video games developed and published by Ludomotion. The first game, Unexplored, was released in 2017. The second game, Unexplored 2: The Wayfarer's Legacy, was released in 2022.

Unexplored 2: The Wayfarer's Legacy	Unexplored is a series of two roguelike video games developed and published by Ludomotion. The first game, Unexplored, was released in 2017. The second game, Unexplored 2: The Wayfarer's Legacy, was released in 2022.

The Unfinished Swan	The Unfinished Swan is an adventure video game developed by Santa Monica Studio and Giant Sparrow and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 3 in October 2012. The game starts with a completely white space in which the player, a boy named Monroe (voiced by Nicholas Marj), is chasing after a swan that has escaped a painting, while simultaneously learning the story of a lonely king (voiced by Terry Gilliam). The PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita versions of the game, which was developed by Armature Studio, was released in October 2014. The game was released on Microsoft Windows and iOS by Annapurna Interactive in September 2020.

Unmechanical: Extended	Unmechanical is a 2.5D puzzle video game developed by now defunct Swedish studio Talawa Games and published by Teotl Studios. It was released in 2012 for Windows. It was later available for iOS. It is available on Steam, GOG.com, GamersGate, OnLive, Rain, Desura and on the App Store. Unmechanical: Extended is an extended edition of the original game, developed by Czech developer Grip Games. It features new levels and bonuses. It was also released for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in 2015.

Uno	Uno's original version was well received by critics. A sequel to the game's original version, Uno Rush, was announced at E3 2008 and released in 2009.

Uno Flip!	Uno Flip! (/uno/; from Italian and Spanish for 'one') is an American shedding-type card game produced by Mattel. The cards from the deck are specially printed for the game. This game is a variation of Uno.

Unrailed!	The game initially entered Early Access on September 9, 2019, and was officially released on September 23, 2020 for Windows, MacOS, Linux, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch and Xbox One.

Unravel	Unravel received a favourable reception upon release, with many critics in agreement that the game's visuals, protagonist, soundtrack, and overall tone were among its strong suits. Some raised criticisms concerning the controls, variety of puzzles, and platforming. A sequel, Unravel Two, was released in June 2018.

Unravel Two	Unravel Two is a 2018 puzzle-platform game developed by Swedish company Coldwood Interactive and published by Electronic Arts. The game is centered around two 'Yarnys', small anthropomorphic creatures made of yarn. It is the sequel to the 2016 game Unravel, and was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in June 2018 and Nintendo Switch in March 2019.

Unruly Heroes	The game entered production in June 2017. Since a part of the Magic Design Studios has worked for Ubisoft on Rayman Legends, there are some similarities in the hand-drawn art style. During development, each level (using the Unity engine) was split into separate scenes so that the multiple people would work on it at the same time.

Until Dawn	Until Dawn is a 2015 interactive drama horror game developed by Supermassive Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. Players assume control of eight young adults who have to survive on Blackwood Mountain when their lives are threatened. The game features a butterfly effect system in which players must make choices that may change the story. All playable characters can survive or die, depending on the choices made. Players explore the environment from a third-person perspective and find clues that may help solve the mystery.

Untitled Goose Game	Untitled Goose Game is a 2019 indie puzzle stealth game developed by House House and published by Panic Inc. Players control a goose who bothers the inhabitants of an English village. Players must use the goose's abilities to manipulate objects and non-player characters to complete objectives. It was released for macOS, Nintendo Switch, Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One.

Unturned	Unturned is a free-to-play survival game by Smartly Dressed Games, a studio consisting solely of Canadian game designer Nelson Sexton. It was released for Windows, macOS, and Linux in July 2014. Unturned allows players to create custom maps using an in-game editor. Cosmetics and mods can also be created using the game's Unity engine, which allows them to publish creations on the Steam Workshop. A retail version of the game was released for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One by 505 Games in November 2020.

Urban Legend in Limbo	A PlayStation 4 port was released on December 8, 2016, making Urban Legend in Limbo the first official Touhou game to be available on a gaming console. The PS4 port features Reisen Udongein Inaba as a new character, as well as an extra story that takes place after the events of Legacy of Lunatic Kingdom.

Use Your Words	Use Your Words is a game for 36 players and is played similar to The Jackbox Party Pack in that players play on a browser with web-enabled devices. Four mini-games are played throughout a single game:

Utawarerumono: Mask of Deception	An English version of Utawarerumono: Mask of Deception was published on May 23, 2017, by Atlus USA in North America and by Deep Silver in Europe. An anime adaptation of Utawarerumono: Mask of Deception aired between October 2015 and March 2016.

Utawarerumono: Mask of Truth	An English version of Utawarerumono: Mask of Truth was published on September 5, 2017, by Atlus USA in North America and by Deep Silver in Europe together with Utawarerumono: Mask of Deception. An anime adaptation of the game made by White Fox premiered in July 2022.

Utawarerumono: Prelude to the Fallen	The game was highly successful in Japan and has since been adapted into a wide variety of other media, including several anime series, drama CDs, and Internet radio programs, and manga.

Utawarerumono: Zan	The game was highly successful in Japan and has since been adapted into a wide variety of other media, including several anime series, drama CDs, and Internet radio programs, and manga.

VA-11 Hall-A: Cyberpunk Bartender Action	VA-11 Hall-A contains nonlinear gameplay, and the game's plotline is influenced by the drinks the player makes and how the customers react to them. There are no dialogue options in the game, with making different drinks being the sole way to influence the direction of the story. VA-11 Hall-A features a diverse cast of characters that have been described as "average non-heroes", with developers noting how they were based on side characters that were never truly fleshed out in movies. Over time, the player begins to know the characters well enough to infer what drinks they want, resulting in an intimate experience.

Valentino Rossi: The Game	Italian motorcycle road racer

Valfaris	The game follows Therion, a warrior who returns to his home of Valfaris and finds out that it has devolved into chaos. He goes on a journey to figure out what happened to his home, destroy its demonic inhabitants, and kill his dad in the process.        

Valiant Hearts: The Great War	Valiant Hearts: The Great War is a 2014 puzzle adventure game developed by Ubisoft Montpellier and published by Ubisoft. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One in June 2014. Set during World War I, the game follows four characters who help a young German soldier find his love in a story about survival, sacrifice and friendship. Players solve puzzles by interacting with various objects and people. The characters are accompanied by a dog named Walt who helps players solve puzzles. Collectible items hidden in each chapter reveal facts about the war.

Valkyria Chronicles 4	Valkyria Chronicles 4 is a tactical role-playing game developed and published by Sega, with assistance from Media.Vision. It is the fourth main game in the Valkyria Chronicles series. It was released in Japan for the PlayStation 4 in March 2018, and worldwide, in addition for the Nintendo Switch, Windows, and Xbox One in September 2018. It was also ported to Stadia on December 8, 2020, and to Amazon Luna on July 8, 2021.

Valkyria Chronicles Remastered	The game is set in Europa, a fictional region loosely based on Europe during the early years of World War II. Because of its abundance of Ragnite ore, which takes the place of petroleum in the game setting, the neutral nation of Gallia comes under attack from the East Europan Imperial Alliance, which is itself engaged in war with the Atlantic Federation. Players take control of a unit of the Gallian Militia, dedicated to repelling the invasion. The game's visuals, which use Sega's CANVAS graphics engine, resemble pencil drawings in motion.

Valkyria Revolution	Valkyria Revolution is an action role-playing game with strategy elements. The flow of the game consists of the player preparing at their base, going to the battlefield to achieve their objectives, and then returning to the base again. The game includes the possibility of permanent death for the characters, but players are able to retry if one of them dies.

Valley	Valley is a first-person action-adventure video game developed by Blue Isle Studios. It was released on Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on August 24, 2016. OS X and Linux were added with patch 1.02 on 3 October 2016. It released on Nintendo Switch on March 7, 2019.

Vanquish	The game is notable for introducing several innovations to the 3D shooter genre, including a fast-paced style of gameplay reminiscent of 2D bullet hell shooters, beat 'em up elements, and an original sliding-boost mechanic. It received a positive critical reaction upon release, with critics praising the game's fast-paced action, innovations to the shooter genre, boss battles and visual style, while criticizing the game's writing, voice acting and overall short length of the campaign.

Vambrace: Cold Soul	Vambrace: Cold Soul bears many similarities to the 2016 video game Darkest Dungeon, particularly with its mix of real-time movement and turn-based combat, the player's management of a group of procedurally-generated characters who accompany Lyric, as well as gameplay mechanics which represent the toll it takes on party members with further exploration and combat. The game's art style is developed by Devespresso CEO Minho Kim and is similar in visual aesthetic to The Coma, a previous project by his team.

Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines 2	Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines 2 is an upcoming action role-playing video game published by Paradox Interactive. A sequel to Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines (2004), the game is part of the World of Darkness series and based on the tabletop role-playing game Vampire: The Masquerade. The game was initially developed by Hardsuit Labs, but by 2021 had been moved to The Chinese Room. It is scheduled to release for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S in late 2024.

Vampire: The Masquerade  Coteries of New York	The player takes the role of one of three fledgling vampires of different vampire clans with different vampiric abilities, and interacts with the members of their coteries. The story depicts the struggle between two vampiric factions, and diverges based on player choices.

Vampire: The Masquerade  Shadows of New York	Vampire: The Masquerade  Shadows of New York is a visual novel, in which the player reads dialogue and narration, set to background images and character portraits, and makes decisions by selecting different choices. These cause branches in the narrative, leading to two different endings, with multiple playthroughs required to see everything; they also shape the player character's personality and outlook. Taking the role of a vampire of clan Lasombra, the player investigates a death and explores New York, making connections with other characters while needing to satiate their character's blood thirst. As a Lasombra, they can use shadow-related abilities, and can communicate with inhabitants of the Other Side.

Vampire: The Masquerade  Swansong	Vampire: The Masquerade  Swansong is a role-playing video game developed by Big Bad Wolf and published by Nacon. It was released in May 2022 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S and in September 2023 for Nintendo Switch. It is based on White Wolf Publishing's tabletop role-playing game Vampire: The Masquerade, and is a part of the larger World of Darkness series.

Vampyr	Vampyr is an action role-playing video game developed by Dontnod Entertainment and published by Focus Home Interactive. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on 5 June 2018, and for Nintendo Switch on 29 October 2019. The plot relates how Jonathan Reid, a doctor who has turned into a vampire, is torn between the Hippocratic Oath and his newfound bloodthirsty nature.

Vane	Vane is an adventure game in which players control a child that is able to turn back and forth into a bird. Gameplay involves exploration and puzzle-solving. The game received mixed reviews upon release.

The Vanishing of Ethan Carter	The Vanishing of Ethan Carter is a 2014 horror adventure video game developed and published by The Astronauts for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Nintendo Switch.

Velocity 2X	Velocity 2X is a shoot 'em up video game developed and published by FuturLab for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita. The developers signed with Sony to create titles for the Vita in 2012, as a result of success of the first game.

Vera Blanc: Full Moon	The first game was ported for iOS on October 13, 2010 and for Android on February 2, 2011. The second game was ported for iOS on November 30, 2010. The first game was ported and published to Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One by Ratalaika Games. The console versions were released in November 2020.

Verdun	Verdun is a squad-based multiplayer first-person shooter video game set during World War I. It was released on 28 April 2015 on Steam, after more than a year in Steam Early Access. It was released for PlayStation 4 on 30 August 2016. An Xbox One version was released on 8 March 2017. A sequel to Verdun, Tannenberg, was released into Steam Early Access on 16 November 2017, and left Early Access for a full release on 13 February 2019. The game released for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S on 15 June 2021 with higher resolution and better texture quality.

Victor Vran	Victor Vran is an action role-playing video game developed by the Bulgarian independent development studio Haemimont Games. Victor Vran is published on Steam by EuroVideo Medien. It entered Steam Early Access in February 2015 and the final version was released in July 2015. The setting of the game resembles Gothic-fantasy fairy tale where both magic and science have a place in the world. The title exited early access on July 24, 2015. An updated port titled Victor Vran: Overkill Edition was released on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on 6 June 2017, and a Nintendo Switch port was released on August 28, 2018. A version of the original game was made available for Amazon Luna on 20 October 2020.

Videoball	Videoball is a minimalist sports video game by Action Button Entertainment. Up to six human and computer-controlled players form two teams. Each uses an analog stick and a single button to control triangles that shoot charged projectiles at a ball and other players. The objective is to knock the ball into the opposing team's goal. Apart from exhibition matches, the game has a scenario challenge-based Arcade mode, and supports online team and ranked multiplayer matchmaking. Videoball has a simple visual style with bright colors, basic shapes, and many customization options.

Vikings: Wolves of Midgard	Vikings: Wolves of Midgard is an action role-playing game developed by Slovak studio Games Farm and published by Kalypso Media. It is set in a fantasy world inspired by the Norse mythology.

Virginia	The game was directed by Jonathan Burroughs and Terry Kenny, with music composed by Lyndon Holland. Burroughs, Kenny and Holland co-wrote the script.

Virtua Fighter 5: Ultimate Showdown	The revised Version B update was released in Japanese arcades in December 2006 and was ported to the PlayStation 3, for which it was released February 2007 and was a launch title for the console's European release in March 2007. Version C was released in Japanese arcades in July 2007 and was ported to the Xbox 360, for which it was released October 2007 in Europe and in North America. The Xbox 360 version would allow users to compete online via Xbox Live, a feature that was not available on the PlayStation 3 version. While Japanese arcades received the first major update Virtua Fighter 5 R, the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and arcades would get the second update Virtua Fighter 5 Final Showdown.

Visage	Visage is a 2020 independent psychological horror video game developed and published by SadSquare Studio. Set in a strangely structured house with a somber history, players control Dwayne Anderson as he explores the backstories of the inhabitants that once lived there. The game is presented in first-person perspective, and a large portion of the house is accessible, although some areas require keys. Obstacles include avoiding the dark to reduce loss of sanity, though several tools can aid players through the dark.

Visions of Mana	First announced in 2021, it is the first mainline game in the series to be released since Dawn of Mana in 2006, and sees the return of series designer/director Koichi Ishii, producer Masaru Oyamada, and composers Hiroki Kikuta,  Tsuyoshi Sekito, and Ryo Yamazaki.

Voice of Cards: The Isle Dragon Roars	The game staff included several veterans of the Drakengard series and its spin-off Nier, including creative director Yoko Taro, executive producer Yosuke Saito, composer Keiichi Okabe, and artist Kimihiko Fujisaka. The game was initially pitched by Yoko as a social mobile game, but Saito insisted on it being developed as a small-scale console title. The game met with positive reviews from journalists, with praise focusing on its presentation and narrative. Two follow-up titles released the following year; Voice of Cards: The Forsaken Maiden and Voice of Cards: The Beasts of Burden.

Void Bastards	Void Bastards is a science-fiction first-person shooter and roguelike video game developed by Blue Manchu and published by Humble Bundle. It was released on May 28, 2019, for Microsoft Windows and Xbox One. Ports of the game for Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 were released on May 7, 2020. The game revolves around surviving in the dangerous Sargasso Nebula by boarding and salvaging materials from spaceships. It received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised its comic-book art style, dark humor, and gameplay, but criticized its lackluster story and replay value.

Volgarr the Viking	In Volgarr the Viking, the player controls the titular character, who has been charged by Odin with a quest to defeat an evil dragon. Volgarr is armed with a sword, a spear and a wooden shield at the start. Along with hitting enemies at range, the spear can also be used to create temporary platforms. Treasure chests located throughout the level will contain power-ups that will grant Volgarr new abilities and, most importantly, enable him to take more damage. In his initial state, Volgarr can sustain a single unblocked hit at the cost of his shield, and a second hit will force the player to return to the last checkpoint, either the beginning of the level or the midpoint of the level. The player has an unlimited number of chances to complete the main levels.

Volume	Volume's story is based on a modern take of the Robin Hood legend. Robert Locksley (voiced by Charlie McDonnell) is a petty thief that finds a device called "Volume", which allows the user to simulate heists that is part of a secret military coup attempt. The device has an artificial intelligence built into it named Alan (Danny Wallace) that acts as "the Microsoft Office paperclip as a military training program", according to Bithell, and guides Robert on how to use the device. Robert decides to use the device to broadcast the simulations of high-profile crimes across the Internet in the same manner as Let's Play videos. Locksley eventually faces off against Guy of Gisbourne (Andy Serkis), re-envisioned for the game as the CEO of a company that has taken over the country of England and runs the nation as a corporatocracy.

V-Rally 4	V-Rally 4 is a racing game where players drive rally cars through a series of stages. The game features five disciplines, with 51 cars from 19 manufacturers, including Porsche, Skoda and Norma. Courses include Monument Valley, Niger, Romania and Malaysia.

VVVtunia	As of 2010, the company managed to acquire a licensing deal with D4 Enterprise (the copyright holder of most property rights under Compile) to create new video games based on franchises from the defunct developer. This does not affect the rights to the Puyo Puyo series which D4 does not own and remains the property of Sega.

VVVVVV	VVVVVV is a 2010 puzzle-platform game created by Terry Cavanagh.  In the game, the player controls Captain Viridian, who must rescue their spacecrew after a teleporter malfunction caused them to be separated in Dimension VVVVVV. The gameplay is characterized by the inability of the player to jump, instead opting on controlling the direction of gravity, causing the player to fall upwards or downwards. The game consists of more than 400 individual rooms, and also supports the creation of user-created levels.

The Walking Dead: Michonne	The Walking Dead is an episodic adventure video game developed and published by Telltale Games. The game is the first of The Walking Dead video game series published by Telltale. Based on the comic book series of the same name, the game consists of five episodes, released between April and November 2012. It is available for Android, iOS, Kindle Fire HDX, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Ouya, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, Xbox 360, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Xbox Series S|X and Nintendo Switch.

The Walking Dead: Season One	The Walking Dead is an episodic adventure video game developed and published by Telltale Games. The game is the first of The Walking Dead video game series published by Telltale. Based on the comic book series of the same name, the game consists of five episodes, released between April and November 2012. It is available for Android, iOS, Kindle Fire HDX, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Ouya, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, Xbox 360, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Xbox Series S|X and Nintendo Switch.

The Walking Dead: Season Two	The Walking Dead: Season Two overall received generally positive reviews from critics; with particular praise going to the atmosphere, protagonist, and its sense of tension; however, its lack of hub areas, lack of impactful choices, and certain aspects of its storytelling were criticized. Many felt it was inferior to its predecessor. A third season, titled The Walking Dead: A New Frontier, was episodically released from December 2016 to May 2017.

The Walking Dead: Season Three	The game takes place in the same fictional world as the comic, where a zombie apocalypse has caused society to collapse. The main characters of the game are mostly original characters; however, due to time skips in season two and between seasons two and three, the timeline is caught up to where the comics are. Clementine (voiced by Melissa Hutchison), who was the player's companion during the first season and the protagonist in season two, returns as a playable character, but the main protagonist of the season is an original character named Javier "Javi" Garcia (voiced by Jeff Schine). In A New Frontier, Javi and Clementine must work together with other survivors to rescue their respective families from the eponymous group, which Clementine used to be a member of.

The Walking Dead: The Final Season	The game represents the first major release by Telltale after a major restructuring; it was aimed to return to themes and elements from the first season, and expected to be the concluding story for Clementine. The game was anticipated to be released over four episodes, with the first episode released on August 14, 2018, for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. However, due to the sudden closure of Telltale Games on September 21, 2018, the last two episodes were overseen by Skybound Entertainment, the production company of The Walking Dead comic creator Robert Kirkman, using as many of the former Telltale development team as possible, as Kirkman had felt it necessary to properly complete Clementine's story.

Wandersong	Wandersong is a puzzle adventure video game developed by American-Canadian indie developer Greg Lobanov. A music-themed game, it follows The Bard, a wandering singer, as they go on a quest to gather pieces of a song that will save their world from destruction. In the game, the player uses The Bard's singing to affect the environment, solve puzzles, and defend against enemies. Wandersong was released on macOS, Microsoft Windows, and Nintendo Switch in September 2018, PlayStation 4 in January 2019, and Xbox One in December 2019.

Warface: Breakout	Warface: Clutch (formerly known as Warface) is a free-to-play online first-person shooter video game developed by Crytek Kiev, co-produced by Crytek Seoul, and published by My.com. The full version of the game was released on 21 October 2013 as playable in North America and Europe. The game was developed with Crytek's in-house CryEngine 3. Warface: Clutch centers around online firefights in player versus player (PvP) matches, with microtransactions allowing players to purchase weapons, equipment, and cosmetic gear. The Xbox 360 port, which was developed by Crytek UK, was discontinued in February 2015. The console version of the game was relaunched for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in 2018 and on the Nintendo Switch in 2020. Members of the game's development team split from Crytek Kiev in February 2019 to form a new development studio, Blackwood Games, who will handle future development duties for Warface: Clutch. A tactical shooter spin-off game named Warface: Breakout was released on 26 May 2020 for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.

Wargroove	Wargroove is a turn-based tactics video game developed and published by Chucklefish. It was released for the Nintendo Switch, Windows and Xbox One on February 1, 2019, with a PlayStation 4 version released on July 23, 2019.

Warhammer 40,000: Battlesector	Warhammer 40,000: Battlesector is a turn-based tactics video game developed by Black Lab Games and published by Slitherine Software for Windows on July 15, 2021. It is based on Games Workshop's tabletop wargame Warhammer 40,000.

Warhammer 40,000: Deathwatch Tyranids Invasion	Warhammer 40,000: Deathwatch  Tyranid Invasion is a turn-based tactics video game developed and published by Rodeo Games for iOS on July 16, 2015. Ports for the Windows and PlayStation 4 were released later as Warhammer 40,000: Deathwatch  Enhanced Edition. It is based on Games Workshop's tabletop wargame Warhammer 40,000. The game has been described as a spiritual successor to Hunters series.

Warhammer 40,000: Inquisitor  Martyr	The gameplay uses a top-down camera and focuses heavily on action, both melee and ranged, it has a leveling system and different playable character classes. Based on this, the game has been frequently compared to Diablo. The game uses a cover system for both the players and enemies, and features destructible environments. The game can be played both solo and in co-op.

Warhammer 40,000: Mechanicus	Warhammer 40,000: Mechanicus is a turn-based tactics video game developed by Bulwark Studios and published by Kasedo Games for the PC in November 2018. It is based on Games Workshop's tabletop wargame Warhammer 40,000.

Warhammer 40,000: Space Wolf	Warhammer 40,000: Space Wolf is a turn-based collectible card game in which players will take the role of Space Marines of the Space Wolves Chapter. A card-based system is used to control the main characters combat actions and movements. Player's equipment, powers and skills are also represented by cards. Cards vary in rarity and maximum level (how many times players can upgrade the card). Cards can be levelled by combining two cards of the same type. Players can create their own decks, picking the cards that fit their gameplay style and needs.

Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Storm Ground	Age of Sigmar: Storm Ground is a turn-based strategy game. It features three different factions: the Stormcast Eternals, the Nighthaunt and the Maggotkin. Each faction has their own unique hero units and characteristics. For instance, the Stormcast Eternals are equipped with sturdy armor, making them hard to kill, while the Maggotkin can change the landscape of a map. In a hex map, players can cast spells and perform various ranged and melee attacks with their units. As the player progresses, they can unlock new weapons, armor, and spells for their units and heroes. Unlocks may also show up in a hex as items stored inside loot containers. In addition to a campaign mode, which incorporates elements commonly found in roguelike games, the game also features online competitive multiplayer modes.

Warhammer: Chaosbane	Chaosbane is set just after the "Great War Against Chaos", two hundred years prior to the setting of Warhammer Fantasy. The player character is a personal champion of Magnus the Pious, slayer of the Chaos Everchosen Asavar Kul, and soon to become Emperor of the fractured Empire. The player selects one of six characters with their own unique skill sets. Four were included with the base game: Konrad Vollen, an Empire Soldier (specializing in sword and shield); Prince Elontir of Ulthuan, an exiled High Elf Archmage (specializing in magic); Bragi Axebiter, a Dwarf Slayer (specializing in twin-weapon melee); and Elessa, a Wood Elf Waywatcher (specializing in archery). Two more characters - Keela Gunnarsdottir, a Dwarf Engineer (using firearms and technology), and Jurgen Heider, an Imperial Witch Hunter (using pistols and blades) - were added in DLCs.

Warhammer: End Times  Vermintide	The development of the game began in early 2013 in Fatshark, after the company came to an agreement with Games Workshop. Games Workshop also collaborated with them to ensure the game is faithful to the Warhammer franchise. The game was self-published as they wanted to maximize their creative freedom. It was labelled by PC Gamer as the best game of Penny Arcade Expo. It was released for Microsoft Windows on October 23, 2015 and was released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on October 4, 2016. 

Warhammer Quest	Warhammer Quest is a series of three tactical role-playing video games developed and published by Rodeo Games and Perchang Games. The first game, Warhammer Quest, was released in 2013. The second game, Warhammer Quest 2: The End Times, was released in 2017. Warhammer Quest: Silver Tower, was released in 2020. The first two games are based on Games Workshop's 1995 board game Warhammer Quest, which itself is based on the tabletop wargame Warhammer. Silver Tower is based on the 2016 sequel board game of the same name.

Warhammer Quest 2: The End Times	Warhammer Quest is a series of three tactical role-playing video games developed and published by Rodeo Games and Perchang Games. The first game, Warhammer Quest, was released in 2013. The second game, Warhammer Quest 2: The End Times, was released in 2017. Warhammer Quest: Silver Tower, was released in 2020. The first two games are based on Games Workshop's 1995 board game Warhammer Quest, which itself is based on the tabletop wargame Warhammer. Silver Tower is based on the 2016 sequel board game of the same name.

Warhammer: Vermintide 2	Warhammer: Vermintide 2 is a first-person action video game developed and published by Fatshark. It is the sequel to 2015's Warhammer: End Times  Vermintide. Vermintide 2 was released for Windows on 8 March 2018. It was released for Xbox One on 11 July 2018, free for members of the Xbox Game Pass. It was released for the PlayStation 4 on 18 December 2018. It also released for Xbox Series X/S on 3 December 2020. A spiritual successor, Warhammer 40,000: Darktide, was released in 2022.

Warriors All-Stars	The gameplay is modeled after the hack-and-slash Warriors series, in which the player controls a single character to defeat enemies throughout a stage while trying to achieve a specific goal. In Warriors All-Stars, each player may also select four supporting characters to assist the chosen character; the supporting characters lend additional abilities that may be triggered by holding down R1 and selecting a face button. Certain pairs of characters, when assisting the character at the same time, may combine their attacks for additional effect.

Warriors Orochi 3 Ultimate	There are two ports of the game: Musou Orochi 2: Special (Mus Orochi 2: Special (OROCHI 2 Special, Mus Orochi Ts Special)), released in 2012 for PlayStation Portable exclusively in Japan, and Warriors Orochi 3: Hyper (Mus Orochi 2: Hyper (OROCHI 2 Hyper, Mus Orochi Ts Hyper)), which was released as a launch title for the Wii U for Japan, North America, and Europe. An updated version, Warriors Orochi 3: Ultimate (Mus Orochi 2: Ultimate (OROCHI 2 Ultimate, Mus Orochi Ts Ultimate)), was released for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita in Japan in 2013 with PlayStation 4 and Xbox One ports released in 2014. The four versions were also released in North America and Europe in 2014. An additional port for the Nintendo Switch was released exclusively in Japan in 2017. A definitive edition of the game Warriors Orochi 3: Ultimate Definitive Edition was released worldwide for Microsoft Windows Steam in 12 July 2022. Unlike previous titles, Warriors Orochi 3 only features Japanese voices.

Warriors Orochi 4	An updated version, titled Warriors Orochi 4 Ultimate (known in Japan as Musou Orochi 3 Ultimate (OROCHI 3, Mus Orochi Sur Arutimeito), was released in Japan on December 19, 2019, and was released in North America and Europe on February 14, 2020.

Warriors Orochi 4 Ultimate	An updated version, titled Warriors Orochi 4 Ultimate (known in Japan as Musou Orochi 3 Ultimate (OROCHI 3, Mus Orochi Sur Arutimeito), was released in Japan on December 19, 2019, and was released in North America and Europe on February 14, 2020.

Warsaw	The game is set during the Warsaw Uprising in the summer of 1944, where the player has to enlist and manage a group of Polish Home Army members to fight against Nazi occupying forces, as well as manage skills and assign weapons.

Wasteland 2: Director's Cut	Wasteland 2 is a post-apocalyptic role-playing video game developed by inXile Entertainment and published by Deep Silver. It is the sequel to 1988's Wasteland, and was successfully crowdfunded through Kickstarter. After the postponement of the original release date from October 2013, it was released for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux in September 2014. An enhanced version of the game, named Wasteland 2: Director's Cut, was released in October 2015, including versions for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch.

Wasteland 3	Wasteland 3 is a squad-based role-playing video game featuring turn-based combat. Played from an isometric perspective, the game features synchronous and asynchronous multiplayer. In the game, players need to make various choices, which have different impacts on the game's world and the story. The game introduces a vehicle that the players can use to traverse the world. The main campaign can be played cooperatively with another player.

Watch Dogs	Watch Dogs is a 2014 action-adventure game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It is the first installment in the Watch Dogs series.  The game is played from a third-person perspective, and its world is navigated on foot or by vehicle. Set within a fictionalized version of the Chicago area in 2013, the single-player story follows grey hat hacker and vigilante Aiden Pearce's quest for revenge after the killing of his niece. An online multiplayer mode allows up to eight players to engage in cooperative and competitive gameplay.

Watch Dogs 2	Watch Dogs 2 is a 2016 action-adventure game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It is the sequel to 2014's Watch Dogs and the second installment in the Watch Dogs series. It was released for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Windows in November 2016, for Amazon Luna in November 2020, and for Stadia in December 2020. Set within a fictionalized version of the San Francisco Bay Area, the game is played from a third-person perspective and its open world is navigated on-foot or by vehicle. Players control Marcus Holloway, a hacker who works with the hacking group DedSec to take down the city's advanced surveillance system known as ctOS. There are multiple ways to complete missions, and each successful assignment increases the follower count of DedSec. Cooperative multiplayer allows for competitive one-on-one combat and connecting with other players to neutralize a player who is causing havoc.

Watch Dogs: Legion	Watch Dogs: Legion is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Ubisoft Toronto and published by Ubisoft. The game is the sequel to 2016's Watch Dogs 2 and the third installment in the Watch Dogs series. Set within a fictionalised representation of a futuristic, dystopian London, the game's story follows the hacker syndicate DedSec as they seek to clear their names after being framed for a series of terrorist bombings. While searching for the true culprits, DedSec also attempt to liberate London's citizens from the control of Albion, an oppressive private military company that has turned the city into a surveillance state following the bombings.

Wattam	Wattam is a 2019 puzzle-platform game developed by Funomena and published by Annapurna Interactive. It was designed by Keita Takahashi, better known for creating the Katamari Damacy series, and was released for PlayStation 4 and Windows on December 17.

We Happy Few	We Happy Few is an action-adventure video game developed by Compulsion Games and published by Gearbox Publishing. In 2016, an early access version was released for Windows, with the full game seeing wide release for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in August 2018.

Werewolf: The Apocalypse  Earthblood	The story follows Cahal, an eco-terrorist werewolf who has been banished from his werewolf tribe, and who fights against the Pentex corporation and the pollution it causes. The player, as Cahal, traverses areas in the American Northwest, and can shapeshift into a wolf, human or werewolf form to perform various tasks, such as exploration, conversation and combat.

What Remains of Edith Finch	The story follows the seventeen-year-old Edith Finch, the last surviving member of her family, as she returns to her ancestral home for the first time in seven years. Reexploring the house, she uncovers her family's mysterious past and learns about the series of deaths that eventually caused the complete collapse of her family structure. The game is presented as an interconnected anthology and, utilizing unique mediums from varying perspectives, the story is told through a series of vignettes; however, the player is made to doubt the authenticity of each story being told.

Wheels of Aurelia	Wheels of Aurelia is a 2016 visual novel and adventure video game that was developed and published by Italian studio Santa Ragione. It was released worldwide in September 2016 for Linux, Microsoft Windows, and OS X; in October 2016 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One; October 2017 on iOS and Android; and November 2017 for the Nintendo Switch. Its story is set in 1978 Italy and tells the story of Lella who drives along the Italian motorway Via Aurelia alongside one or many companions; commenting on issues such as single parenthood, fascism, and the Mafia.

Wheel of Fortune	Wheel of Fortune (often known simply as Wheel) is an American television game show created by Merv Griffin. The show has aired continuously since January 1975. It features a competition in which contestants solve word puzzles, similar to those in hangman, to win cash and prizes determined by spinning a giant carnival wheel. The current version of the series, which airs in nightly syndication, premiered on September 19, 1983. It stars Pat Sajak and Vanna White as hosts, who have hosted the nighttime version since its inception. The original version of Wheel was a network daytime series that ran on NBC from January 6, 1975, to June 30, 1989, and  subsequently aired on CBS from July 17, 1989, to January 11, 1991; it returned to NBC on January 14, 1991, and was cancelled that year, ending on September 20, 1991. (The network daytime and syndicated nighttime versions aired concurrently from 1983 until the former's conclusion.)

Where the Water Tastes Like Wine	Where the Water Tastes Like Wine is a narrative-driven adventure game. Players explore a Great Depression-era United States, hearing and collecting oral stories and passing them along. Stories are used as a form of progression, with characters gradually opening up to the player in response to the provided stories, which in turn allows one to learn their true stories. The player may purchase goods to replenish their hunger or tiredness, with money being earned and then spent on the aforementioned goods, or in faster means of transportation. Several means of transport are available, including walking, hitchhiking and freighthopping.

Whispering Willows	The player takes control of Elena Elkhorn who wants to rescue her father. With her pendant, she can access her shamanic powers: the ability to leave her physical body and explore the world in spirit form. Using this ability, she can fly through gaps in walls and reach new places. The player can also possess certain objects, such as levers, to manipulate the environment. Throughout the game, the player finds notes from ghosts, which reveal new things. To advance in the game, the player has to find items and use them on certain objects.

White Day: A Labyrinth Named School	Set in South Korea in 2001, players control Lee Hui-min, a new transfer student at a local high school who sneaks into the institution after hours to prepare a White Day surprise for his crush, Han So-young. Upon entry, Hui-min becomes trapped and begins to encounter the supernatural. With the assistance of other students, Hui-min traverses the building, hiding from foes and using item micro-management to solve puzzles to progress through the school, in an attempt to leave the building before dawn.

White Night	White Night started in 2010, when its lead developer was working on a remake of Alone in the Dark. During this time, he became interested with the idea of putting black and white into a survival horror game. The team built the engine from scratch and found it gratifying to see it play out on various consoles. They enjoyed working with Activision, and appreciated the resources that partnership came with, for instance them showing the game off to the media. They had free rein in their creative decision, and while Activision offered tips on where to improve; money was no issue.

Wild	Wild is set during the prehistoric Neolithic period in a procedurally generated world. Within the game world, the player controls a human and can use smaller animals to spy on others, or larger animals to support the player and their tribe in fights with other humans. Animals can be controlled by using shamanic powers - once "possessing" an animal the gameplay moves to the point of view of the controlled creature, and then proceeds using the skills and characteristics of that animal.

The Wild Eight	VG247 identified inspiration from Diablo and Don't Starve. The Wild Eight is a survival game with cooperative multiplayer.  After a plane crash in the Alaska wilderness, up to eight survivors band together to assist each other in the inhospitable climate.  To survive, players must craft tools and the basic necessities of life, such as shelter and a way to stay warm.  Among other dangers, mutated wolves attack the players.  Players who die respawn and can recover their equipment, which is dropped near their corpse.  They can also cook and eat their own corpse. The Wild Eight can be played in single-player. The final release contains a story-driven campaign and quests.

Wild Guns Reloaded	Wild Guns is a 1994 space Western shooting gallery video game developed by Natsume for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. Set in the Wild West with steampunk and sci-fi influences, the story follows Annie and her bounty hunter Clint, seeking revenge for the death of her family. The player controls either Annie or Clint sidestepping and jumping in the foreground while shooting down enemy robots in the background and dodging enemy bullets. These gameplay mechanics combine elements from third-person shooters and light gun games.

Windjammers	Players choose from one of six playable characters, each with their own unique speed/power ratings and special throws. Players maneuver around their respective sides of the court in any of the eight cardinal directions (allowing for almost fluid movement in any direction). They must act as the defense and offense of their side, blocking the disc from entering the goal zone, and throwing the disc back to the opponent's side in an attempt to score. Players throw the disc back and forth (with the speed of the disc generally increasing with each throw) until one of them scores a point, which causes the disc to be reset by the referee, who throws it to the player who was scored on so that they can serve. There are yellow goal zones, worth three points when hit by the disc, and red goal zones, worth five points. In addition, failing to catch the disc while it is in the air (described below) is considered a "Miss" and gives two points to the opponent. Each of the six court types varies in the size and positioning of the goal zones.

Windjammers 2	Windjammers 2 is a sports game played from a top-down perspective, in which players must try to throw a frisbee into their opponent's goal while protecting their own. Players can earn 3 or 5 points by landing the frisbee into their opponent's goal in the yellow or red zones respectively, or can try to land the frisbee on the floor of their opponent's side to earn 2 points. Players win a set by achieving a certain number points, and win the match by winning the most sets.  In the game, players select from 11 playable characters; this includes all six returning characters from the original Windjammers, along with Jao Raposa of Brazil, Max Hurricane of Canada, Sammy Ho of China, Sophie De Lys of France, and the secret character Disc Man. Two additional characters, Anna Szalinski of Poland and the cyborg Jamma GX03, were added as part of a free update, bringing the total to 13. Each character has their own attributes. For instance, some characters have more steady control than others at the cost of speed. There are EX Moves, which are special powers can be that activated for gameplay advantages. Players can compete on 10 different courts, including all six courts from Windjammers, which feature different goal zones and gameplay properties. Both single-player and local multiplayer modes are featured. The game includes an "Arcade Mode", where multiple matches are played through championships. Windjammers 2 launched with cross-platform play between the Windows and Xbox One versions, later expanded to all systems following an update in October 2023.

Winning Post 8 2016	This horse racing video game article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Winning Post 8 2017	This horse racing video game article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Winning Post 8 2018	This horse racing video game article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Winning Post 9	This horse racing video game article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Winning Post 9 2020	This horse racing video game article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Winning Post 9 2021	This horse racing video game article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Wintermoor Tactics Club	Players control a group of high school students who belong to an after-school club, the Wintermoor Tactics Club.  The principal tells them that a series of snowball fights will determine the sole after-school club allowed to remain.  The club members must use their knowledge of role-playing games to win the championship.  Players also manage the Tactics Club's interactions with other students, which was inspired by visual novels.  As the Tactics Club defeats other clubs, they recruit new members from them and gain more options in combat.

The Witch and the Hundred Knight	The game's story revolves around Metallia, a powerful swamp witch who summons the legendary Hundred Knight in order to defeat her rival, the Forest Witch Malia, and cover the world in swamp mud.

The Witch and the Hundred Knight 2	The Witch and the Hundred Knight 2 is an action role-playing game with a top-down isometric view. Players fight their way through a variety of levels as Hundred Knight, a magical creature that can be equipped with five types of weapons: swords, hammers, staffs, lances, and spears. Each weapon type differs in attack range, speed, and motion. By changing the order of use, players create many different combos.

The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt	The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt is a 2015 action role-playing game developed and published by CD Projekt. It is the sequel to the 2011 game The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings and the third game in The Witcher video game series, played in an open world with a third-person perspective. The games follow the Witcher series of fantasy novels written by Andrzej Sapkowski.

Wipeout Omega Collection	Wipeout Omega Collection (stylised as WipEout Omega Collection) is a 2017 futuristic racing video game compilation co-developed by XDev, Clever Beans and Creative Vault Studios and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It was first released in North America on June 6 2017 and in Europe a day later.

Witch on the Holy Night	Witch on the Holy Night (known in Japan as  Mahtsukai no Yoru  (Japanese: , lit. A Magician's Night) and sometimes shortened as Mahoyo) is a visual novel developed and published by the Japanese  company Type-Moon. It was first released for Windows on April 12, 2012 in Japan. An enhanced version with voice acting was released by Aniplex worldwide for Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4 on December 8, 2022, and was released for Windows via Steam on December 14, 2023. It is largely a kinetic novel: the user experiences a linear plotline with little variation or player choices. The game is a prequel to Tsukihime.

The Witness	The Witness is a 2016 puzzle video game developed and published by Thekla, Inc. Inspired by Myst, the game involves the exploration of an open world island filled with natural and man-made structures. The player progresses by solving puzzles, which are based on interactions with grids presented on panels around the island or paths hidden within the environment. The game provides no direct instructions for how these puzzles are to be solved, requiring the player to identify the meaning of symbols in the puzzles. A central design element to the game was how these puzzles are presented so that the player can achieve a moment of inspiration through trial and error and gain that comprehension themselves.

Wizard of Legend	Wizard of Legend is a top-down 2D roguelike game where the player controls a wizard as they attempt to complete a 10-floor procedurally generated dungeon, the 'Chaos Trials', using a selection of various spells to defeat various enemies and bosses and become the titular "Wizard of Legend". Each button or key casts a spell, called 'arcana', in the form of a basic attack, an evade, a 'signature' (more powerful) arcana, and then a variety of alternate spells, called standard arcana, to aid the player in traversing the dungeon and fighting enemies. The dungeon contains three 'shops' per floor to help the player. Two shops are always run by the same NPC, and shops do not appear on floors that have a boss, except the shops just before the final boss. New spells can be bought from a shop that appears on every level of the dungeon with collected money, or added permanently to equip before entering the dungeon through 'Chaos Gems', a persistent currency. Passive upgrades, called Relics, are collected in the same way. The player may also buy different styles of robes, called Outfits, with Chaos Gems, which alter the player's initial stats, such as the player's starting health, defense, or damage. The robe, however, cannot be changed once in the dungeon, it can only be optionally boosted by an NPC. The third 'shop' in a floor is a random NPC, and they have a variety of functions ranging from selling the player relics or arcana to letting the player heal, sell unwanted items, or giving the player increases to some of their stats. Usually the random shop will have a downside for the player to take note of, so it is always best to look out for a potential problem before interacting with one. The player may also interact with a few NPCs prior to entering the dungeon to obtain temporary boosts. The game is completed after completing all floors of the dungeon, defeating three major bosses (wizards representing fire, earth, water, air, and lightning), and defeating the final boss, who represents all the normal elements as well as a special element known as chaos.

The Wolf Among Us	The Wolf Among Us has been generally well received by critics and garnered a cult following. In July 2017, Telltale announced that a second season of The Wolf Among Us was scheduled for release in 2018. However, Telltale eventually had to shut down for financial reasons in 2018, with its assets being acquired by LCG Entertainment. One of the first original games from this new company, doing business as Telltale Games, will be a sequel to The Wolf Among Us, titled The Wolf Among Us 2, which was announced in December 2019 and is set to be released in 2024.

The Wolf Among Us 2	When The Wolf Among Us was completed by July 2014, Telltale Games had thought of doing a second season, but they had already committed to the projects leading to Tales from the Borderlands, Minecraft: Story Mode, and Game of Thrones. The company was aware of a strong interest in a second season through the intervening years, and they were looking for the right time to develop it.

Wolfenstein: The New Order	Wolfenstein: The New Order is a 2014 action-adventure first-person shooter video game developed by MachineGames and published by Bethesda Softworks. It was released on 20 May 2014 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox 360, and Xbox One. The game is the seventh main entry in the Wolfenstein series, set in an alternate history 1960s Europe where the Nazis won the Second World War. The story follows war veteran William "B.J." Blazkowicz and his efforts to stop the Nazis from ruling over the world.

Wolfenstein: The Old Blood	Wolfenstein: The Old Blood is an action-adventure first-person shooter video game developed by MachineGames and published by Bethesda Softworks. It was released on 5 May 2015 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. The game is a stand-alone title in the Wolfenstein series and a prequel expansion to 2014's Wolfenstein: The New Order, set in an alternate-history 1946. The single-player story follows war veteran William "B.J." Blazkowicz and his efforts to discover the locations of a Nazi compound. Development began in 2014, soon after the release of The New Order.

Wolfenstein: Youngblood	The player assumes control of either Jessie or Zofia Blazkowicz from a first-person perspective; an optional cooperative multiplayer mode is included. Players can complete the game with another player or with an artificial intelligence substitute. Missions can be completed in a non-linear order, and players can unlock new gear and abilities as they progress in the game.

Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus	Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus is a 2017 action-adventure and first-person shooter game developed by MachineGames and published by Bethesda Softworks. The eighth main entry in the Wolfenstein series and the sequel to 2014's Wolfenstein: The New Order, the game is set in an alternate history that takes place in 1961, following the Nazi victory in the Second World War. The story follows war veteran William "B.J." Blazkowicz and his efforts to fight against the Nazi regime in the United States. Gameplay mechanics are largely similar to those of The New Order, though the team introduced improvements such as allowing players to dual-wield any combination of weapons in the game. A binary choice in the prologue alters the game's entire storyline; some characters and small plot points are replaced throughout the timelines. 

Wonder Boy: Asha in Monster World	Monster World IV is a mix of action-adventure, platforming, and RPG genres, in which the player traverses a 2D landscape fighting a variety of monsters as well as interacting with non-playable characters.

Wonder Boy: The Dragon's Trap	Wonder Boy: The Dragon's Trap is a platform action-adventure game developed by Lizardcube and published by Dotemu. The game is a remake of the 1989 game Wonder Boy III: The Dragon's Trap, which was originally developed by Westone Bit Entertainment and published by Sega for the Master System as part of the Wonder Boy series. The game was released on Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in April 2017, later releasing for Microsoft Windows in June 2017, macOS and Linux in July 2017, iOS and Android in May 2019, and Amazon Luna in October 2020. The game takes place after the ending of Wonder Boy in Monster Land, in which Wonder Boy has been cursed by the Mecha Dragon and must go on a quest to return to human form. In the game, players find items and clues needed to access different parts of Monster Land, and they can transform into other forms and gain different abilities.

Wonder Boy Returns Remix	It was the first in the long-running Wonder Boy series of games and was followed up by five sequels, Wonder Boy in Monster Land, Wonder Boy III: Monster Lair, Wonder Boy III: The Dragon's Trap, Wonder Boy in Monster World and Monster World IV. The game was also adapted by Hudson Soft as Adventure Island, which spawned its own series of games.

The Wonderful 101: Remastered	The Wonderful 101 is an action-adventure game developed by PlatinumGames and published by Nintendo for the Wii U. The game was directed by Hideki Kamiya and produced by Atsushi Inaba. It was released in August 2013 in all major regions except North America, where it released the following month. The Wonderful 101 received generally positive reviews. It failed to meet sales expectations.

World of Final Fantasy	The game takes place in Grymoire, a world of coexisting Final Fantasy locations. The story follows siblings Lann and Reynn, who possess the power to tame monsters called Mirages, and are sent to Grymoire to reclaim their lost memories and thwart the plans of the Bahamutian Army. Returning to a more traditional gameplay style from earlier titles, it revolves around turn-based battles which utilize the series' recurring Active Time Battle system, augmented with a stacking mechanic where stacking allied characters and monsters affects statistics and abilities.

World of Van Helsing: Deathtrap	The Xbox One version was released on 3 January 2017 under the title The World of Van Helsing: Deathtrap. NeocoreGames released a PlayStation 4 port on 28 September 2020.

World of Warriors	World of Warriors is an action role-playing video game developed and published by Mind Candy. It was released for iOS and Android in November 2014. A PlayStation 4 port published by Sony Interactive Entertainment was released on 21 March 2018. The game also spawned two mobile app spinoffs, World of Warriors: Quest and World of Warriors: Duel, both released in 2015. On 10 September 2018, World of Warriors was removed from the iOS and Android appstores, and on 5 October 2018, all online services for the app were discontinued. However, the PlayStation 4 version and the mobile app spinoffs continue to be playable.

World War Z	World War Z is a third-person shooter video game developed and published by Saber Interactive. It was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on 16 April 2019, and a Nintendo Switch version was released on 2 November 2021. It was also released for Google Stadia on 5 April 2022. Ports for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S released on 24 January 2023. Loosely based on the 2006 novel of the same name and set in the same universe as the 2013 film adaptation, the game follows groups of four survivors of a zombie apocalypse in the cities of New York, Jerusalem, Moscow, Tokyo, Marseille, Rome, Kamchatka and Phoenix.

Worms Battlegrounds	Worms Battlegrounds is a 2D artillery turn-based tactics video game developed and published by Team17 and was released on 30 May 2014 for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.

Worms Rumble	Worms Rumble is a 2020 action game developed and published by Team17. As a spin-off of the long-running Worms series, the game was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5 in December 2020 and for the Nintendo Switch, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S in June 2021.

Worms W.M.D	Worms W.M.D is a 2D artillery turn-based tactics video game in the Worms series, released on 23 August 2016. Its gameplay resembles that of Worms Armageddon more than subsequent installments, while adding new features that range from interactive vehicles such as tanks, to buildings that the worms can enter for protection. It is also notable for being the first major redesign the worm characters have received since Worms 3D.

Wrath: Aeon of Ruin	Wrath: Aeon of Ruin is a first-person shooter developed by KillPixel Games and Slipgate Ironworks and published by 3D Realms and Fulqrum Publishing. Wrath: Aeon of Ruin is built on a modified version of the Quake engine, making it the first major game release on that engine in nearly 20 years. The first episode was released on Steam Early Access on November 22, 2019, and was fully released on February 27, 2024.

WRC 5	WRC 5 is a racing video game based on the 2015 World Rally Championship season. The game was developed by French developer Kylotonn and published by Bigben Interactive for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, Xbox One, Xbox 360, and PlayStation Vita platforms in October 2015. It is the first game in the series developed by Kylotonn. This is the final installment of WRC for PS3, PlayStation Vita, and Xbox 360.

WRC 6	
WRC 6, also known as WRC 6 FIA World Rally Championship, is a racing video game based on the 2016 World Rally Championship season. The game was developed by French developer Kylotonn and published in October 2016 by Bigben Interactive for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. It is the first WRC video game under Kylotonn banner not to feature Mitsubishi and Subaru Rally Cars and also first under Kylotonn banner not released on seventh generation consoles.

WRC 7	WRC 7, also known as WRC 7 FIA World Rally Championship, is a racing video game based on the 2017 World Rally Championship season. The game was developed by French developer Kylotonn and published on 15 September 2017 by Bigben Interactive for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. The game carries an official FIA esports licence.

WRC 8	WRC 8 was revealed as the official game of the 2019 FIA World Rally Championship in February 2019. It features dynamic weather and an entirely redesigned career mode reminiscent of Codemasters' Formula One series. The game also sees the addition of new classic cars, much like its main rival, Codemasters' Colin McRae Rally/DiRT series, including the Lancia Stratos and Renault Alpine. The game also offers more content than the previous game, with 102 special stages spread across the championship's 14 countries. The game was released to Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in September 2019, and was later ported to Nintendo Switch on 31 October.

WRC 9	In March 2019, WRC 9 was revealed as the official game of the 2020 FIA World Rally Championship alongside WRC 10. It features 14 different locations (reflecting the 2020 season as it was originally intended to be run before the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in many events being rescheduled or cancelled and new rallies added to the calendar), including all three returning rallies, Safari Rally, Rally New Zealand and Rally Japan, with up to fifty official crews from WRC, WRC-2, WRC-3 and J-WRC available for the player to choose. The game also features fifteen more landmark vehicles from the WRC history.

WRC 10	WRC 10 was revealed in April 2021 as the official video game of the 2021 World Rally Championship, featuring twelve rounds of the season, including Croatia Rally, Rally Estonia, Ypres Rally and Rally de Catalunya. Rally New Zealand was not included in the main campaign, though some special stages are featured in other modes. Celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the World Rally Championship, the game offers multiple historical rally cars ranging from the classical Group B era to the modern World Rally Cars, such as Alpine A110, Audi Quattro, Lancia Delta Group A, Citron Xsara WRC. The game was released worldwide on September 2, 2021, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S, followed by a Nintendo Switch port in March 2022.

Wreckfest	Wreckfest is a racing video game developed by Bugbear Entertainment and published by THQ Nordic. Wreckfest is described as the spiritual successor to the FlatOut series and a cross between FlatOut, Destruction Derby and cult 1989 PC racer Street Rod. A notable feature of the game engine is the use of soft-body damage modelling, which enables location-based damage that affects the driving dynamics of vehicles in a realistic fashion.  

WWE 2K15	WWE 2K15 is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by 2K for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One and Microsoft Windows. It is the sequel to WWE 2K14, and was succeeded by WWE 2K16. It was released on October 28, 2014, in North America and on October 31, 2014, in Europe for last generation consoles and released on November 18, 2014, in North America and on November 21, 2014, in Europe for current generation consoles. It was released for Microsoft Windows on April 28, 2015, and was the first WWE game to be released on the platform since WWE Raw, which was released in 2002. It is the first game in the series to use the new WWE logo since it was introduced earlier in 2014, which was originally used as the logo of the WWE Network.

WWE 2K16	WWE 2K16 is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by 2K for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One. It is the sequel to WWE 2K15, and was succeeded by WWE 2K17. It was released on October 27, 2015, in North America and on October 30, 2015, in Europe, while being released on PC on March 11, 2016.

WWE 2K17	WWE 2K17 is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by 2K for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, and Microsoft Windows. It is the eighteenth game in the WWE game series (fourth under the WWE 2K banner), serving as the following from their previous game WWE 2K16 (released in 2015), and followed by WWE 2K18 (released in 2017). This is the fourth and final instalment to be released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 platforms and on those platforms still follows the gameplay blueprint of WWE 2K14.

WWE 2K18	WWE 2K18 is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by 2K. It is the nineteenth instalment in the WWE game series (fifth under the WWE 2K banner) and a follow-up to WWE 2K17. It was released worldwide on October 17, 2017, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Nintendo Switch. With its release, WWE 2K18 became the first in the series to be exclusively released on eighth generation hardware and also the first in the series to be released for PC and consoles simultaneously. A Nintendo Switch version followed on December 6, 2017, the only release of the series for the Switch and the first WWE game to be released for a Nintendo platform since WWE '13.

WWE 2K19	WWE 2K19 is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by 2K. It was released worldwide on October 9, 2018, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. It is the twentieth game in the WWE series, the sixth under the WWE 2K banner, and the successor to WWE 2K18. 

WWE 2K20	WWE 2K20 is a professional wrestling video game developed by Visual Concepts and published by 2K. It was released worldwide on October 22, 2019, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. It is the twenty-first installment of the WWE series,  the seventh under the WWE 2K banner, and the successor to WWE 2K19. 2K20 is the first game in the series not to be developed by Yuke's, which had developed every entry in the series since its inception in 2000. Visual Concepts, who had previously worked with Yuke's as co-developers since 2014, took over as lead studio for the series.

WWE 2K22	WWE 2K22 is a 2022 professional wrestling sports video game developed by Visual Concepts and published by 2K. It is the twenty-second overall installment of the video game series based on WWE, the ninth game under the WWE 2K banner, and the successor to 2019's WWE 2K20.  It was released on March 11, 2022, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. The follow-up title, WWE 2K23, was released on March 14, 2023.

WWE 2K23	WWE 2K23 is a 2023 professional wrestling sports video game developed by Visual Concepts Austin and published by 2K. It is the twenty-third overall installment of the video game series based on WWE, the tenth game under the WWE 2K banner, and the successor to WWE 2K22. It was released on March 14, 2023, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

WWE 2K24	WWE 2K24 is an upcoming professional wrestling sports video game in development by Visual Concepts and to be published by 2K. It will mark the tenth installment under the WWE 2K name and the twenty-fourth entry in the series overall based on WWE and is the successor to WWE 2K23.

WWE 2K Battlegrounds	WWE 2K Battlegrounds is a professional wrestling video game developed by Saber Interactive and published by 2K on September 18, 2020. A spin-off to the WWE 2K series and a part of the Playground Sports series, Battlegrounds is a fast-paced, arcade-style fighting game; similar in format to Saber's previous games, NBA Playgrounds and NBA 2K Playgrounds 2.

XCOM 2	XCOM 2 is a 2016 turn-based tactics video game developed by Firaxis Games and published by 2K. It is the sequel to 2012's reboot of the series, XCOM: Enemy Unknown; it takes place 20 years after the events of Enemy Unknown. XCOM, a military organization trying to fight off an alien invasion, has lost the war and is now a resistance force against the occupation of Earth and the established totalitarian regime and military dictatorship. Gameplay is split between turn-based combat in which players command a squad of soldiers to fight enemies, and strategy elements in which players manage and control the operations of the Avenger, an alien ship that is used as a mobile base for XCOM.

Xeno Crisis	Critical reception for Xeno Crisis has varied depending on the version; the Mega Drive/Genesis release garnered generally favorable reviews, while the Switch port received average reviews. Praise was given to its graphical presentation, soundtrack, arcade-style gameplay, controls, and cooperative multiplayer, but some reviewers felt mixed regarding the bosses and certain design decisions. Criticism was geared towards its difficulty, short length, and issues when playing with the Mega Drive's three-button controller.

Xenon Racer	Xenon Racer is a racing game set in the year 2030. Players race along courses in seven different world locations using vehicles which, according to the game, have been known to be the last cars with wheels, as the cars have been replaced by flying vehicles.

Xeodrifter	Xeodrifter is a Metroidvania video game developed by Renegade Kid. The game was first released for Nintendo 3DS and Microsoft Windows in 2014. A Wii U port of the game was released 2015, and after Gambitious Digital Entertainment acquired the rights to the Microsoft Windows version of the game, it was also released on PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita in 2015. A Nintendo Switch version was released in February 2018.

XIII	XIII is a first-person shooter video game developed by Maltese studio PlayMagic and published by Microids for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in November 2020. Versions for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S were released in September 2022. It is a remake of the 2003 video game of the same name.

Xing: The Land Beyond	Oculus Rift, HTC Vive

Xuan-Yuan Sword 7	In time immemorial, the titular Xuan-Yuan Sword was wielded by Yellow Emperor to defend Ancient China against the warlord Chi You and his aggressive subjects. After Chi You's defeat, the future for the five-thousand-year-old history of China was secured, and the sword was passed on from Yellow Emperor to future generations to continue to defend the world against evil. Due to its great power, the sword was often sought by treacherous individuals to further their own ends.

Yakuza 0	Yakuza 0 is an action-adventure game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega. It is the sixth main entry in the Yakuza series and a prequel to the original game. It was released for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 in Japan in March 2015, and in North America and Europe for PlayStation 4 in January 2017. It was released on Windows on 1 August 2018 and on Xbox One on 26 February 2020. A free accompanying game application for PlayStation Vita, titled Yakuza 0: Free to Play Application for PlayStation Vita, was released in Japan in February 2015. Set in late 1988 during Japan's bubble era, and seventeen years before the events of the first game, the story follows Kazuma Kiryu and Goro Majima as they get embroiled in a conflict between various Yakuza factions for control of a patch of land known as the "Empty Lot".  

Yakuza 3	Yakuza 3 (Japanese: 3, Hepburn: Ry ga Gotoku 3, "Like a Dragon 3") is the third main entry in the Like a Dragon series, released for the PlayStation 3 in 2009. It was developed by Sega's CS1 Team and published by Sega. It was released in Japan and South East Asia on February 26, 2009, and in North America and Europe on March 9, 2010, and March 12, 2010. A remaster containing all cut content was released in Japan on August 9, 2018, and worldwide on August 20, 2019, for the PlayStation 4, and on January 28, 2021, for Windows and Xbox One. A sequel, Yakuza 4, was released on March 18, 2010, in Japan.

Yakuza 4	Yakuza 4 (Japanese: 4 , Hepburn: Ry ga Gotoku 4: Densetsu wo Tsugumono, "Like a Dragon 4: Heir to the Legend") is an action-adventure game developed and released by Sega for the PlayStation 3. The game is the fourth main entry in the Like a Dragon series. It was introduced on July 24, 2009. A promotional video was presented at the 2009 Tokyo Game Show, The sequel to Yakuza 3, it was released on March 18, 2010 in Japan after a playable demo was released on the Japanese PlayStation Store on March 5. Yakuza 4 was released in Europe and North America in March 2011. A sequel, Yakuza 5 was released in 2012.

Yakuza 5	Yakuza 5 (Japanese: 5 , Hepburn: Ry ga Gotoku 5: Yume, Kanaeshi Mono, "Like a Dragon 5: Fulfiller of Dreams") is an action-adventure video game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega for the PlayStation 3. The game is the fifth main entry in the Like a Dragon series. The game was released in December 2012 in Japan, and localized for North America, Europe and Australia as a PlayStation Network download in December 2015. A remaster with improved resolution and frame rate was released for the PlayStation 4 on June 20, 2019 in Japan, and worldwide on February 11, 2020 as part of The Yakuza Remastered Collection. Versions for Windows and Xbox One were released in January 2021.

Yakuza 6: The Song of Life	Yakuza 6: The Song of Life is an action-adventure video game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega for PlayStation 4. The game is the seventh main entry in the Like a Dragon series and the final main game to feature Kazuma Kiryu as the primary protagonist, and was released in Japan in December 2016. The English version was released in Southeast Asia in March 2018, and worldwide the following month. Versions for Windows and Xbox One were released in March 2021. The game was followed up by Yakuza Kiwami 2, a remake of the second game, and by Yakuza: Like a Dragon, the next chronological installment, released in 2020.

Yakuza Ishin	Ry ga Gotoku Ishin! is an action-adventure video game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4. It is a spin-off of the Like a Dragon series, formerly and commonly known in English localization as Yakuza. It was released on February 22, 2014, exclusively in Japan, serving as a launch title for the PlayStation 4. A remake, Like a Dragon: Ishin!, was released in February 2023 for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. It was developed using Unreal Engine 4, and received a worldwide release unlike the original game.

Yakuza Kiwami	Yakuza Kiwami is an action-adventure video game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega. It is a remake of Yakuza, the first game in the Yakuza series, originally released on Sony's PlayStation 2. Yakuza Kiwami was released on PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 in Japan on January 21, 2016, and on PlayStation 4 in Europe and North America on August 29, 2017. It was also ported to Windows via Steam worldwide on February 19, 2019, to Xbox One on April 21, 2020, and to Amazon Luna on December 22, 2022.

Yakuza Kiwami 2	Yakuza Kiwami 2 is an action-adventure video game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega. It is a remake of the 2006 video game Yakuza 2 for the PlayStation 2, and is the Like a Dragon series' second remake title following 2016's Yakuza Kiwami. It was developed using the Dragon game engine from Yakuza 6. The game was released for PlayStation 4 on December 7, 2017 in Japan, and worldwide on August 28, 2018. It was released for Windows worldwide on Steam on May 9, 2019 and released for Xbox One on July 30, 2020. A version for cloud-based platform Amazon Luna was released on January 19, 2023.

Yakuza: Like a Dragon	Yakuza: Like a Dragon is a role-playing video game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega. The first mainline title in the Yakuza franchise developed as a turn-based RPG, it was released in Japan and Asia for PlayStation 4 on January 16, 2020. The western release of the game for PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on November 10, 2020 included new costumes, the English audio track and some previously paid DLC. This version was then released in Asia under the subtitle International on February 25, 2021 for Windows and Xbox platforms. The game was released worldwide for PlayStation 5 on March 2, 2021, and a version for Amazon Luna launched on December 10, 2021.

The Yakuza Remastered Collection	Yakuza, known in Japan as Ry ga Gotoku and renamed to Like a Dragon in recent series entries to align with its Japanese name, is a video game franchise created, owned and published by Sega. It incorporates elements of the action-adventure, beat 'em up, and role-playing genres.

Yesterday Origins	Yesterday Origins began development in November 2014. It was the first new title that Pendulo had embarked on since 2012, when financial problems had forced the company to restructure.

YesterMorrow	The player takes control of Yui and has to jump, climb, and run through different environments, beating enemies and, collecting Everlight, a mysterious source of energy that is used for special abilities. Throughout the game, the player unlocks more abilities and can therefore reach new areas in previous locations. Furthermore, the player can talk to NPCs, find animals to pet, and travel to the past or the future at certain points in the game. As the player advances through the story more lore entries are unlocked to learn more about the world and its inhabitants.

Yo-kai Watch 4++	As with the other games in the series, the protagonist possesses the eponymous Yo-kai Watch, a device that allows them to see, befriend, and summon creatures called Yo-kai. Yo-kai Watch 4 is set in three distinct time periods. Characters from the first three games, including Nathan Adams and Katie Forester, are in one time period. Another time period is set 30 years after the other main series games, using playable characters that were introduced in the Yo-kai Watch Shadowside: Oni- no Fukkatsu film, including Natsume Amano, the daughter of Nate and Katie. The final time period is set in the 1960s, approximately 30 years prior to the other games, with characters from the Yo-kai Watch: Forever Friends movie, including Shin Shimomachi.

Yoku's Island Express	Yoku's Island Express is a platform pinball adventure video game developed by Swedish studio Villa Gorilla and published by Team17. The studio's debut project, the game was released in May 2018 for Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. A version was released for Amazon Luna in October 2020.

Yomawari: Midnight Shadows	The game was released in October 2018 for the Nintendo Switch, alongside its predecessor, as part of Yomawari: The Long Night Collection. The game was later ported for Android and iOS in Japan on August 29, 2019.

Yonder: The Cloud Catcher Chronicles	Yonder: The Cloud Catcher Chronicles is an adventure video game developed and published by Prideful Sloth for PlayStation 4 and Windows. It was released on 18 July 2017. On 17 May 2018 a Nintendo Switch port was released on the Nintendo eShop, with a physical version releasing on 12 June 2018 published by Merge Games. The game was later ported to PlayStation 5 on 27 July 2021 and Xbox Series X and Series S on 5 August 2021.

Yooka-Laylee	Yooka-Laylee is a platform game published by Team17 in 2017 for Windows, macOS, Linux, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch, followed by a version for Amazon Luna in October 2020. Developed by Playtonic Games, a group of former key personnel from Rare, Yooka-Laylee is a spiritual successor to the Banjo-Kazooie series released for the Nintendo 64 nearly 20 years prior. After years of planning to develop a new game, Playtonic Games initiated a Kickstarter campaign that attracted significant media coverage and raised a record-breaking sum of over 2million. The game follows chameleon Yooka and bat Laylee on their quest to retrieve a magical book from an evil corporation.

Yooka-Laylee and the Impossible Lair	Yooka-Laylee and the Impossible Lair is a platform video game developed by Playtonic Games and published by Team17. As a spin-off to Yooka-Laylee (2017), the game was released digitally for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on October 8, 2019, followed by a version for Amazon Luna on October 20, 2020.

Ys: Memories of Celceta	Ys: Memories of Celceta is a 2012 action role-playing game developed by Nihon Falcom. The game was originally released for the PlayStation Vita in Japan and later in North America by Xseed Games in November 2013, and in PAL regions by NIS America in February 2014. A Windows version was released in China in 2015, and worldwide in July 2018. A PlayStation 4 version was released in Japan in May 2019, and in North America and Europe in June 2020.

Ys Origin	Ys Origin is a prequel to the previous nine installments of the Ys video game series. It takes place 700 years before the events of Ys I: Ancient Ys Vanished, and tells much of the backstory of Ys, Darm Tower, the Black Pearl, the twin goddesses, and the six priests. The game has three playable characters: Yunica Tovah, Hugo Fact, and Toal Fact. By completing the game with each of the characters, the player sees more dimensions to the story. Each player character has a distinctive story, combat style and skillset. Ys Origin is the first game in the Ys series in which Adol Christin is not the protagonist. The game also differs in some respect as it is a straightforward dungeon crawl, taking place entirely within a single location.

Ys VIII: Lacrimosa of Dana	Ys VIII: Lacrimosa of Dana is a 2016 action role-playing game developed by Nihon Falcom and published by NIS America. A part of the Ys series, it was first released in Japan by Falcom for the PlayStation Vita in July 2016, with later worldwide releases for PlayStation 4, Windows, Nintendo Switch, Amazon Luna, Stadia and PlayStation 5. An abridged version for Android and iOS, Ys VIII Mobile, is also scheduled for release. Ys VIII had sold over 500,000 copies by the end of 2018. The game was followed up by Ys IX: Monstrum Nox in 2019.

Ys IX: Monstrum Nox	Ys IX: Monstrum Nox is a 2019 action role-playing game developed by Nihon Falcom. A part of the Ys series, it was released for the PlayStation 4 in Japan in September 2019 and worldwide by NIS America in February 2021. The game received additional releases for Windows, Nintendo Switch and Stadia in July 2021, and PlayStation 5 in May 2023. Ys IX received generally positive reviews from critics.

Ys X: Nordics	Ys (, su, .mw-parser-output .IPA-label-small{font-size:85%}.mw-parser-output .references .IPA-label-small,.mw-parser-output .infobox .IPA-label-small,.mw-parser-output .navbox .IPA-label-small{font-size:100%}IPA: ) (/is/) is a series of action role-playing games developed by Nihon Falcom. The series chronicles the life of the adventurer, Adol Christin.

Yu-Gi-Oh! Legacy of the Duelist	The following is a list of video games developed and published by Konami, based on Kazuki Takahashi's Yu-Gi-Oh! manga and anime franchise, along with its spin-off series. With some exceptions, the majority of the games follow the card battle gameplay of the real-life Yu-Gi-Oh! Trading Card Game. There are 56 in total.

Yu-Gi-Oh! Legacy of the Duelist: Link Evolution	The following is a list of video games developed and published by Konami, based on Kazuki Takahashi's Yu-Gi-Oh! manga and anime franchise, along with its spin-off series. With some exceptions, the majority of the games follow the card battle gameplay of the real-life Yu-Gi-Oh! Trading Card Game. There are 56 in total.

YU-NO: A Girl Who Chants Love at the Bound of this World	YU-NO was written and produced by Hiroyuki Kanno, and its FM-synth music soundtrack was composed by Ryu Umemoto, Ryu Takami and Kazuhiro Kanae, who had previously worked on C's Ware titles such as Eve Burst Error (1995). YU-NO was well-received and influential in Japan, where it revolutionized the visual novel industry and in turn had an impact on the manga and anime industries, inspiring numerous visual novel, manga and anime works.

Yurukill: The Calumniation Games	The game released on May 22, 2022 in Japan and in July in international markets. Upon release, Yurukill received mixed reception, although general praise was offered for its premise and unconventional fusion of genres.

Zanki Zero: Last Beginning	The story is set on island ruins after the destruction of the Earth, leaving behind eight people. Each chapter of the game focuses on a different character, which the player will be controlling. The player can fight enemies throughout the game, most of which being animals, which rewards the player with items upon defeat. The game also features survival game elements, with players having to manage a character's stamina, stress, and bladder needs.

Zero Escape: The Nonary Games	Zero Escape, formerly released in Japan as Kyokugen Dasshutsu (Japanese: , lit. "Extreme Escape"), is a series of  adventure games directed and written by Kotaro Uchikoshi. The first two entries in the series, Nine Hours, Nine Persons, Nine Doors (2009) and Zero Escape: Virtue's Last Reward (2012), were developed by Spike Chunsoft (formerly Chunsoft), while the third entry, Zero Time Dilemma (2016), was developed by Chime. Zero Escape is published by Spike Chunsoft in Japan, while Aksys Games and Rising Star Games have published the games for North America and Europe respectively.

Zero Gunner 2-	A version of this game was developed and released in 2018 for the Nintendo Switch, by Zerodiv. This version was given the title Zero Gunner 2- as Zerodiv had to rebuild the game almost from scratch, due to the original data being missing, and out of respect for both the original version of the game and purists. This version was later released for Microsoft Windows via Steam in December 2020, PlayStation 4 in July 2022 and Xbox One in January 2023.

Zero Time Dilemma	The story is set between the previous two games, and follows nine people who are kidnapped by a masked person known as Zero. They are divided into three teams, and forced to play a death game called the "Decision Game". The player takes the roles of three of the characters, and plays through the chapters the story is made up of: these consist of animated cinematics, escape-the-room puzzles, and moral decisions for the player to make. The chapters represent 90-minute periods, and can be played out of order.

Ziggurat	Ziggurat is a first-person shooter dungeon crawl video game with roguelike elements. Levels and encounters are procedurally generated and include bosses, trap rooms, spells, and treasures. During gameplay, randomly selected weapons and perks can be unlocked through travelling the dungeon and levelling up.

Zombi	ZombiU is a first-person survival horror video game developed by Ubisoft Montpellier and published by Ubisoft. It was released for the Wii U as one of its launch games in November 2012. In the game, the player assumes control of a human survivor amid a 2012 zombie apocalypse. Featuring a permadeath system, it uses the Wii U GamePad extensively to scan the environment and maintain the survivor's inventory. The game was released under the name Zombi for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in 2015. The port, handled by Straight Right, adds new melee weapons and removes the multiplayer feature.

Zombie Army Trilogy	Zombie Army Trilogy is a third-person tactical shooter video game developed and published by Rebellion Developments. It is a spin-off to the Sniper Elite series and was released on March 6, 2015, for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. A port for the Nintendo Switch was released on March 31, 2020, in North America and Europe, and in Japan on May 28, 2020. The game takes place in an alternative version of the final days of World War II, with the German army close to defeat. Adolf Hitler deploys a last resort plan to raise the fallen as zombies through occult rituals and turn them against Allied forces, thus causing Germany to become overrun with the undead.

Zombie Army 4: Dead War	Zombie Army 4: Dead War is a third-person shooter video game developed and published by Rebellion Developments. It is a sequel to the 2015 compilation game Zombie Army Trilogy, itself a spin-off to the Sniper Elite series. It was released on 4 February 2020 for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One, 1 May 2020 for Stadia, and 26 April 2022 for the Nintendo Switch.

Zombie Driver: Immortal Edition	Zombie Driver is a vehicular combat video game. Set in a zombie apocalypse environment, a chemical accident/secret government project has turned the inhabitants of a city into shambling, aggressive opponents. The player must undertake various missions to rescue stranded civilians, slaughter zombies and unlock/upgrade various vehicles.

Zombies Ate My Neighbors	Zombies Ate My Neighbors is a run and gun video game developed by LucasArts and published by Konami for the Super NES and Sega Genesis consoles in 1993.

Zone of the Enders: The 2nd Runner  Mars	The plot is set two years after the events from Zone of the Enders and focuses on Dingo Egret, a former member from Mars' military organization BAHRAM whose leader Ridley "Nohman" Hardiman wants back with him. Nohman shoots Dingo following his rejection but the agent Ken Marinaris saves Dingo by connecting his body to Jehuty and forces to work in order to defeat BAHRAM. The game had a new director, Shuyo Murata, who producer Hideo Kojima appointed in order to provide a different experience. The team worked to cover the criticism the original Zone of the Enders received resulted in The 2nd Runner having more action elements.

Star Wars: Battlefront	Battlefront features several locales from major Star Wars battles, and includes voice acting from veteran voice actors Temuera Morrison, Tom Kane, and Nick Jameson. It received generally favorable reviews from critics, averaging approximately an 80% approval rating across all platforms at aggregate websites GameRankings and Metacritic. Critics praised the multiplayer component and the ability to play a part in major Star Wars battles, however the lacking single player component and poor AI were points of concern. The game sold in excess of 4 million units in sales.

Star Wars: Battlefront II	Star Wars: Battlefront II is a 2005 first-person shooter and third-person shooter video game based on the Star Wars film franchise. Developed by Pandemic Studios and published by LucasArts, it is a sequel to 2004's Star Wars: Battlefront and the second game in the Star Wars: Battlefront series. The game was released in PAL regions on October 28, 2005, on the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable (PSP), Microsoft Windows, and Xbox platforms, and in North America on November 1 of the same year. It was released on the PlayStation Store on October 20, 2009, for download on the PSP. The PSP version was developed by Savage Entertainment.

Abandoned	Abandoned is the tentative title for an upcoming survival horror game being developed and published by Blue Box Game Studios, an independent video game company based in The Netherlands. Described as a "cinematic horror survival shooter" featuring "realistic" gameplay mechanics, Abandoned's premise centres around Jason Longfield, who must escape a forest after being kidnapped. A playable teaser of Abandoned, titled Abandoned: Prologue, is also in development and is planned to be released before the main game.

AEW Fight Forever	AEW Fight Forever is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by THQ Nordic. It is the debut title on home consoles and personal computers based on American professional wrestling promotion All Elite Wrestling (AEW).

Age of Wonders 4	Age of Wonders 4 is a turn-based strategy game set within a high fantasy universe. Gameplay is 4X-based (explore, expand, exploit and exterminate).

Alan Wake II	Alan Wake 2 is a 2023 survival horror video game developed by Remedy Entertainment and published by Epic Games Publishing. The sequel to Alan Wake (2010), the story follows best-selling novelist Alan Wake, who has been trapped in an alternate dimension for 13 years, as he attempts to escape by writing a horror story involving an FBI special agent named Saga Anderson. 

Alfred Hitchcock  Vertigo	Alfred Hitchcock  Vertigo is an adventure video game developed by the Spanish company Pendulo Studios and published by Microids. It is loosely based on the films of Alfred Hitchcock, particularly Vertigo (1958). The story follows a man named Ed Miller, who enters therapy to cope with the mysterious after-effects of a car crash.

Aliens: Fireteam Elite	Aliens: Fireteam Elite is a 2021 third-person shooter game developed by Cold Iron Studio in collaboration with Disney's 20th Century Games (under the name of 20th Century Studios). It is a standalone sequel to the original Alien trilogy. In contrast to Alien: Isolation, Fireteam Elite is more in line with Aliens: Colonial Marines, and focuses on action rather than survival-horror.

Aliens: Dark Descent	Aliens: Dark Descent is a real-time tactics video game developed by Tindalos Interactive in collaboration with Disney's 20th Century Games and published by Focus Entertainment. Set in the Alien universe, the game was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on June 20, 2023. It received generally positive reviews from critics.

Animal Well	Animal Well is an upcoming Metroidvania video game developed by Shared Memory and published by Bigmode. The player controls a blob and explores a labyrinth filled with animals. It will be released for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Nintendo Switch in early 2024.

Anno 1800	Anno 1800 is a city-building real-time strategy video game, developed by Ubisoft Blue Byte and published by Ubisoft, and launched on April 16, 2019. It is the seventh game in the Anno series, and returns to the use of a historical setting, following the previous futuristic titles Anno 2070 and Anno 2205, taking place during the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century. Following the previous installment, the game returns to the series' traditional city-building and ocean combat mechanics, but introduces new aspects of gameplay, such as tourism, blueprinting, and the effects of industrialisation influences on island inhabitants.

Apex Legends	Suggest me a game to play with friends?<mct>FPS game with abilities<mct>Apex Legends is a free-to-play battle royale-hero shooter game developed by Respawn Entertainment and published by Electronic Arts. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in February 2019, for Nintendo Switch in March 2021, and for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in March 2022. A mobile version of the game designed for touchscreens titled Apex Legends Mobile was released in May 2022 on Android and iOS. The game supports cross-platform play, excluding the aforementioned mobile platforms.

Armored Core VI: Fires of Rubicon	Armored Core VI: Fires of Rubicon is a 2023 mecha-based vehicular combat game developed by FromSoftware and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. The game is the first entry in the Armored Core series since Armored Core: Verdict Day (2013) and was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on 25 August. It received generally positive reviews from critics and is the highest-selling entry in the series, selling over 2.8 million copies by October 2023.

Astro's Playroom	The game was announced on 11 June 2020 at the PlayStation 5 reveal event. It was released on 12 November 2020. Alongside Demon's Souls, Astro's Playroom was the final game released by Japan Studio before their dissolution in April 2021. Team Asobi was formally spun off into an independent studio within Sony's PlayStation Studios in June 2021.

Atelier Marie: The Alchemist of Salburg - Digital Deluxe Edition	Atelier Marie began development in 1996, with creator and designer Shinichi Yoshiike wanting a light-hearted fantasy. Artist Kohime Ohse created the character designs and in-game art. Reception of the game has been generally positive, with commentary focusing on its non-standard gameplay compared to other titles of its time. The remake saw praise for its art, but several noted its archaic elements. Following the success of Atelier Marie, Gust developed several follow-up games including two sequels. The Atelier series would become one of Gust's flagship products.

Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora	Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora is a 2023 open world action-adventure game based on the Avatar film series, developed by Massive Entertainment and published by Ubisoft. The game was released for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on December 7, 2023. It is the second video game released for the franchise after Avatar: The Game (2009) and it received generally mixed reviews, with unfavorable comparisons with Ubisoft's Far Cry series.

Axiom Verge 2	The game follows Indra Chaudhari, a billionaire who receives a mysterious message telling her to go to Antarctica if she wishes to see her missing daughter again. It received generally favorable reviews from critics.

Back 4 Blood	Back 4 Blood is a 2021 first-person shooter game developed by Turtle Rock Studios and published by Warner Bros. Games. It was released on October 12, 2021, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

Baldur's Gate III	Baldur's Gate 3 is a 2023 role-playing video game developed and published by Belgian game developer Larian Studios. The game is the third main installment in the Baldur's Gate series, based on the tabletop fantasy role-playing system of Dungeons & Dragons. A partial version of the game was released in early access format for macOS and Windows in October 2020. It remained in early access until its full release for Windows in August 2023, with versions for PlayStation 5, macOS, and Xbox Series X/S releasing later that year.

Batora: Lost Haven	Batora: Lost Haven is a 2022 video game developed by Stormind Games and published by Team17. It was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series S and Xbox Series X on 20 October 2022, for Nintendo Switch on 6 April 2023 and for Amazon Luna on 13 April 2023. The game received mixed reviews, with its combat and story being praised by some critics, and called flawed by others.

Black Myth: Wukong	Black Myth: Wukong () is an upcoming action role-playing game by Chinese developer Game Science, based on the classical 16th-century Chinese novel Journey to the West. It is set to release on August 20, 2024.

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III	Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III is a 2023 first-person shooter video game developed by Sledgehammer Games and published by Activision. It is a sequel to 2022's Modern Warfare II, serving as the third entry in the rebooted Modern Warfare sub-series and the twentieth installment in the overall Call of Duty series. The game was released on November 10, 2023, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

Call of Duty: Warzone 2.0	A recent shooter game<mct>Give me name of an FPS shooter game?<mct>Call of Duty: Warzone 2.0 is a free-to-play battle royale video game developed by Infinity Ward and Raven Software for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. It is a sequel to 2020's Call of Duty: Warzone. The game is a part of 2022's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II and 2023's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III, but does not require purchase of any of the parent titles. It was introduced during Season 1 of Modern Warfare II content. The game features cross-platform play and a new extraction mode titled DMZ.

The Callisto Protocol	The Callisto Protocol is a 2022 survival horror game developed by Striking Distance Studios and published by Krafton. The game is directed by Dead Space series creator Glen Schofield and is considered a spiritual successor to the series. 

Century: Age of Ashes	Set in a dark fantasy world, Century: Age of Ashes is a third person multiplayer arena battle video game in which the player can mount dragons and fight with them. In the game, players have to choose between three classes before each game, each with its unique design, abilities and customisation: Marauder, Windguard, Phantom and now the Stormraiser. The Marauder is a skilled hunter that can mark its prey. The Windguard is a supporting class that can shield its allies and the Phantom is a stealthy assassin that can cloak itself. Each class is bound to a specific kind of dragon.

Chorus	Chorus received generally positive reviews from critics and failed to meet the sales expectations of Embracer Group.

Clash: Artifacts of Chaos	The story of Clash: Artifacts of Chaos takes place in Zenozoik, the fantasy setting of Zeno Clash and Zeno Clash 2. The protagonist is a martial artist named Pseudo who becomes the bodyguard of the Boy, a small creature with healing powers desired by the tyrant Gemini and her henchmen.

Company of Heroes 3	In Company of Heroes 3, the players take the role of Allied Forces during their invasion of Italy and Axis forces in the North African campaign.

Control: Ultimate Edition	Control is a 2019 action-adventure game developed by Remedy Entertainment and published by 505 Games. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in August 2019, and for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in February 2021. Cloud-based versions for the Nintendo Switch and Amazon Luna were released in October 2020, followed by a version for Stadia in July 2021. Two paid expansions have been released.

Control 2	Control is a 2019 action-adventure game developed by Remedy Entertainment and published by 505 Games. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in August 2019, and for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in February 2021. Cloud-based versions for the Nintendo Switch and Amazon Luna were released in October 2020, followed by a version for Stadia in July 2021. Two paid expansions have been released.

Crimson Desert	Crimson Desert is set in a medieval fantasy world, on a continent called Pywel. Macduff, the main character, is a mercenary who finds himself beleaguered by the burdens of leadership and painful memories of his past.

Crimsonland	The player is placed in the middle of the map while enemies gradually enter and make their way towards the player. The player has to eliminate the enemies before their health reaches zero. With each death of an enemy the player will gain experience points. Each level the player gains, the player can select special perks that range anywhere from faster reload times, faster shooting speed, faster movement, to status effects like radiation (creating an area of affect around the player that damages all enemies within its range), poison bullets, and many others. Randomly, when an enemy is killed they will drop a bonus that may be extra points, temporary invulnerability, fire bullets, slowing of time, and many others.

Crisis Core: Final Fantasy VII Reunion	Crisis Core: Final Fantasy VII is an action role-playing game developed and published by Square Enix for the PlayStation Portable. The game was first released in 2007, and serves as a prequel to the 1997 video game Final Fantasy VII. It is part of the metaseries Compilation of Final Fantasy VII, which includes other products related to the original game.

CRSED: F.O.A.D.	CRSED: F.O.A.D. puts several dozens of players on a map surrounded by a shrinking ring of death and makes them fight each other until there is only one standing. Players use weapons, items and vehicles they find right on the map. Unlike other battle royale games, there is no parachuting/insertion phase and players are spawned randomly all across the map right after matchmaking is finished. It's possible to play in both first-person and third-person modes, but in the latter case players are accompanied by flying camera drones to uncover positions of those who peek around corners.

Crusader Kings III	Crusader Kings III is a grand strategy role-playing video game set in the Middle Ages, developed by Paradox Development Studio and published by Paradox Interactive as a sequel to Crusader Kings (2004) and Crusader Kings II (2012). The game was released on PC on 1 September 2020 and on the Xbox Series X/S and PlayStation 5 on 29 March 2022.

Curse of the Sea Rats	A pirate witch transforms all the people on a prison ship into a rat. The ship's captain offers to grant amnesty to four of the prisoners if they defeat the witch. Curse of the Sea Rats is a Metroidvania game where players fight enemies across 2D platforms. Each of the four playable characters has their own set of unique skills, and up to four players can play at once.  Players can switch between the characters at set points in the game. The art is hand-drawn.

Cyanide & Happiness	Cyanide & Happiness (C&H) is a webcomic created by Rob DenBleyker, Kris Wilson, Dave McElfatrick and Matt Melvin. The comic has been running since 2005 and is published on the website explosm.net along with animated shorts in the same style. Matt Melvin left C&H in 2014, and several other people have contributed to the comic and to the animated shorts. 

Cyber Shadow	Cyber Shadow is a side-scrolling action-platform game developed by Finnish indie studio Mechanical Head Studios and published by Yacht Club Games. Using an 8-bit aesthetic, the game follows a cybernetic ninja named Shadow who sets out to rescue his clan in a world overrun by machines.

Dave the Diver	Dave the Diver is a video game developed and published by Mintrocket. It was released for macOS and Microsoft Windows in June 2023 following an early access release in October 2022. A Nintendo Switch version was released in October 2023 and a version for PlayStation consoles will be released in April 2024. Dave the Diver combines elements of management, action-adventure, and role-playing video games.

Dauntless	Dauntless is a free-to-play action role-playing game developed by Phoenix Labs and published and distributed by Epic Games. The game initially launched in beta in May 2018 for Microsoft Windows. An early access version launched on May 21, 2019 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, including full support for cross-platform play, and was fully released for those platforms on September 26, 2019. A Nintendo Switch version was released on December 10, 2019. Versions for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S were released on December 2, 2021.

Dawn of the Monsters	The game begins in 2036, when enormous monsters known as the Nephilim invade Earth and cause massive destruction around the globe. Three decades later, humanity establishes the Defense Alliance Worldwide Network (DAWN), and recruits the help of four different guardian creatures (Megadon, Ganira, Aegis Prime, and Tempest Galahad) in an attempt to retake the planet from these beasts.

DC Universe Online	DC Universe Online (DCUO) is a free-to-play action combat massively multiplayer online game set in the fictional universe of DC Comics. Developed by Dimensional Ink Games and co-published by Daybreak Game Company and WB Games, the game was initially released in January 2011 for Windows and PlayStation 3. It would later release in November 2013 for PlayStation 4, April 2016 for Xbox One and August 2019 for Nintendo Switch.

Dead Space	Dead Space is a 2023 survival horror game developed by Motive Studio and published by Electronic Arts. A remake of the 2008 game of the same name developed by EA Redwood Shores, it was released for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on January 27, 2023. It is the first release in the Dead Space series since 2013's Dead Space 3. Like the original game, it is set on a mining spaceship overrun by deadly monsters calledNecromorphsfollowing the discovery of an artifact called the Marker. The player controls engineerIsaac Clarke as he navigates the spaceship and fights the Necromorphs while struggling with growing psychosis.

Deathloop	Deathloop is a first-person shooter immersive sim video game developed by Arkane Lyon and published by Bethesda Softworks. The game was released on 14 September 2021 for PlayStation 5 and Windows, and on 20 September 2022 for Xbox Series X/S. It received generally favorable reviews from critics, who praised the art design and gameplay. Deathloop won Best Game Direction and Best Art Direction at The Game Awards 2021, as well as Outstanding Achievement in Game Direction at the 25th Annual D.I.C.E. Awards.

Death Stranding 2: On the Beach	Death Stranding is a 2019 action game developed by Kojima Productions and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It is the first game from director Hideo Kojima and Kojima Productions after their split from Konami in 2015. A Windows port licensed by Sony was released by 505 Games in July 2020. A director's cut was released for the PlayStation 5 and Windows in September 2021, followed by a release for Windows in March 2022. Versions for iOS, iPadOS and macOS were released in January 2024.

Death Stranding Director's Cut	Death Stranding is a 2019 action game developed by Kojima Productions and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It is the first game from director Hideo Kojima and Kojima Productions after their split from Konami in 2015. A Windows port licensed by Sony was released by 505 Games in July 2020. A director's cut was released for the PlayStation 5 and Windows in September 2021, followed by a release for Windows in March 2022. Versions for iOS, iPadOS and macOS were released in January 2024.

Deceive Inc.	Players control a spy competing against other teams of spies to retrieve a package.  Gameplay blends elements of hero shooters and extraction shooters.  Each player has a holographic projector that can hide their identity.  As long as they do not shoot, players can hide as a non-player character or an object.  Shooting reveals their identity. To retrieve the package, players need to get into locked vaults.  To gather the necessary resources, players can masquerade as a VIP, which allows them access to otherwise forbidden areas, though this stands out to other players.

Deep Rock Galactic	Deep Rock Galactic is set on the alien planet of Hoxxes IV, whose caves are rich in minerals but filled with hostile wildlife and hazardous environments. The player controls a dwarf miner employed by Deep Rock Galactic, an intergalactic mining corporation that sends employees into the caves of Hoxxes IV to extract resources. Players can team up with up to three other dwarves on missions into the planet, where they must navigate procedurally generated caves and complete objectives while fighting alien swarms.

Deliver Us The Moon	Deliver Us the Moon is an adventure-puzzle game video game developed by Dutch game development studio KeokeN Interactive. It was first self-published as Deliver Us the Moon: Fortuna for Windows on September 28, 2018. The game later saw an expanded release on October 10, 2019, with Wired Productions serving as the publisher for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions on April 24, 2020. The game was released for Google Stadia on June 1, 2022. The game was also released for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S on June 23, 2022. Deliver Us the Moon was marketed as a science fiction thriller set in an apocalyptic near future; the game follows a lone astronaut who is sent to the moon on a mission to avert humanity's fate towards extinction after Earth's natural resources have been depleted. The original and re-released Windows versions released in September 2018 and October 2019, respectively. The Windows and PlayStation 5 versions were met with mixed reviews, while the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions were met with more positive reviews by video game publications.

Demon's Souls	The game features new weapons, armor, rings and items called "Grains" which give players a temporary resistance to effects like poison, fire, and bleeding. As with the original, players are limited in how much they can carry before their character becomes encumbered, although some aspects of this encumbrance system have been adjusted. For example, in the original game, healing grasses have no weight, so players could potentially carry hundreds of them; in the remake, these healing items now have a weight associated with them so that the amount players can carry is significantly lessened, and more potent grasses weigh more than less effective ones. One new feature, called "Fractured World", is a mirror mode which reverses the layout of environments. The game also includes a photo mode, whereupon using it the game will pause, something not possible in the original. Filters from the photo mode can also be used during gameplay, including a "classic mode" filter intended to evoke the look of the original PlayStation 3 game. Although the Souls series is notorious for its difficulty, Bluepoint stated that the remake would not introduce different difficulty levels. The character creation feature has also been updated, with more options for customization.

Destroy All Humans! 2: Reprobed	In Destroy All Humans! 2: Reprobed, players assume the role of the grey alien Crypto as he travels to various locations in an open world, including England, Japan, Russia, and the United States, to complete missions and defeat human enemies. It features a variety of weapons and abilities that players can use to defeat enemies, including the ability to mind-control humans and pilot a flying saucer.

Destruction AllStars	According to Lucid Games, Destruction AllStars is a "global sports entertainment event where stars & cars collide". The player assumes control of one of 16 characters, referred to as AllStars, each of whom has access to unique hero vehicles. For instance, Hana's car is equipped with a retractable blade that can slice opponent vehicles in half, while Genesis' car is equipped with rocket boosters that give a massive speed boost and help deal more damage to opponent vehicles. The game is a vehicular combat game in which players need to seek ways to destroy the vehicles of the opponents.

Devil May Cry 5: Special Edition	Devil May Cry 5 is a 2019 action-adventure game developed and published by Capcom. It is the sixth installment overall and the fifth mainline installment in the Devil May Cry series. Capcom released it for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on 8 March 2019. The game takes place five years after Devil May Cry 4 and follows a trio of warriors with demonic powers, the returning Dante, Nero, and a new protagonist named V, as they attempt to stop the Demon King Urizen from destroying the human world. Across their journey in Red Grave City, the player can use these characters in different missions. Each of them has their own way of fighting and becoming stronger. As this happens, the mystery behind V is revealed, along with his connection with Urizen.

The Diofield Chronicle	The Diofield Chronicle plays as a strategy role-playing video game. Unlike Final Fantasy Tactics, it is not tile-based in its movement, but instead allows for more free directional movement like XCOM. The game features real-time strategy elements, with the battle system being named the "Real-Time Tactical Battle System", an allusion to the Active-Time Battle system.

Dungeons & Dragons: Dark Alliance	Dungeons & Dragons: Dark Alliance is a third-person action role-playing game published by Wizards of the Coast and developed by its subsidiary Tuque Games. Based on the Dungeons & Dragons tabletop role-playing system, the title of the game alludes to Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance and Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance II, although its story and gameplay are not related to those earlier titles. The game was released in June 2021 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

EA Sports PGA Tour	EA Sports PGA Tour is a sports video game developed by EA Tiburon and published by EA Sports for PlayStation 5, Windows and Xbox Series X/S. It is an entry in the EA Sports PGA Tour franchise, the first since 2015s Rory McIlroy PGA Tour. It is also the first in the series not to bear an athletes name in the title since PGA Tour 98.

eFootball 2022	eFootball is a series of association football simulation video games developed and published by Konami. It has been completely rebranded from the original Pro Evolution Soccer (known as Winning Eleven in Japan) series. The game's first year, entitled eFootball 2022, was released on 30 September 2021. It was later changed to the game's second year, eFootball 2023, on August 25, 2022 and the game's third year, eFootball 2024 on September 7, 2023. This game is part of the International Esports Federation's World Championship and North and Eastern Europa League (NEEC).

ELEX II	Players control Jax, a survivor in a post-apocalyptic, science fantasy setting. Elex 2 is an action role-playing game played from a third-person perspective.  There are six factions that players can align with, each representing a different philosophy.  The substance elex, which comes from outer space, gives people powers equivalent to magic, and various factions prefer either magic or technology.  Combat uses a system in which actions, such as attacking or defending, drain Jax's stamina.  Without enough stamina, Jax can not attack or defend. Jax is equipped with a jetpack, which players can use to explore the open world.  Gaining levels allows Jax to increase his attributes, which allow him to use better equipment.  The antagonists are techno-organic aliens, which Jax must unite the various factions against.

The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim	The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim is an action role-playing video game developed by Bethesda Game Studios and published by Bethesda Softworks. It is the fifth main installment in The Elder Scrolls series, following The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2006), and was released worldwide for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 on November 11, 2011.

Endless Dungeon	In Endless Dungeon, the player is able to control a squad of two to three characters as they explore an abandoned space station. The game will feature eight playable characters at launch, with each having their own unique weapons, skills and abilities. If the player plays solo, they will only assume direct control of one character, while issuing commands to the others, the player can switch to the other characters though if they feel like they want to change their gameplay. The game also supports cooperative multiplayer, allowing up to three players to work and coordinate with each other.

Enlisted	Enlisted is squad-based, with each player controlling an infantry squad or a vehicle's crew. Players control a squad of 39 soldiers (represented by a real life division of their respective military, such as the 1st Infantry Division and the 2nd New Zealand Division) of varying classes, equipped with class-restricted weapons such as rifles, submachine guns, machine guns, sniper rifles, mortars, anti-tank weapons, or flamethrowers; alternatively, players may control the crew of a tank or a fighter aircraft, at least one of which must always be equipped for use in the menu. Players control one of the soldiers in their squad, and can give orders to or switch between the other AI soldiers in their squad. The player's squads, soldiers, and weaponry can be managed in the main menu, where squads can be equipped and upgraded, soldiers and weapons can be purchased, game modes and campaigns can be switched, and several other aspects of the game can be customized or controlled.

Exoprimal	Exoprimal is a 2023 multiplayer third-person shooter game developed and published by Capcom. In the game, the player controls an "exofighter", an exosuit-equipped soldier, who must complete objectives while fighting hordes of dinosaurs with the goal of defeating the sinister artificial intelligence Leviathan. In gameplay, players are grouped into two teams of five, and must compete with each other to defeat waves of dinosaurs and complete objectives before the opposing team can.

F1 22	F1 22 is a racing video game developed by Codemasters and published by EA Sports. It is the fifteenth  entry in the F1 series by Codemasters. The game holds an official licence of the 2022 Formula One and Formula 2 championships. The game was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on 1 July. It would also make its debut on EA's Origin platform as their main platform, which is also playable in the EA Desktop app, as well as the Epic Games Store. In previous entries, Steam was the only platform available for PC players. The game received mostly positive reviews from critics, with most user criticism aimed at the lack of innovation compared to previous titles and the new "F1 Life" mode, as well as the revised in-game vehicle handling model which caused controversy over its new traction system, linked to the real-life regulation change Formula 1 saw for the 2022 season.

F1 23	F1 23 is a racing video game developed by Codemasters and published by EA Sports. It is the sixteenth entry in the F1 series by Codemasters. It holds the official licence for the 2023 Formula One and Formula 2 championships. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Linux (through Valve's Proton compatibility layer) on 16 June, or 3 days earlier on 13 June for users who had previously pre-ordered the Champions Edition, allowing them early access.

F1 Manager 2022	F1 Manager 2022 is the official racing management simulation game of the 2022 Formula One, Formula 2, and Formula 3 championships by Frontier Developments. It is the first installment in the F1 Manager series and the first licensed manager game since F1 Manager by EA Sports. The game was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on 30 August 2022.

Fall Guys	Fall Guys (formerly known as Fall Guys: Ultimate Knockout) is a free-to-play platform battle royale game developed by Mediatonic and published by Epic Games. The game involves up to 40 players who control bean-shaped characters and compete against each other in a series of randomly selected mini-games called "rounds" such as obstacle courses and survival challenges. Players are eliminated as the rounds progress until, eventually, the last remaining player is crowned the winner. The game draws inspiration from game shows like  Takeshi's Castle, It's a Knockout, Wipeout, and playground games like tag and British Bulldog.

Fatal Frame: Mask of the Lunar Eclipse	Fatal Frame: Mask of the Lunar Eclipse is a survival horror video game developed by Tecmo, Nintendo SPD and Grasshopper Manufacture. The fourth installment in the Fatal Frame series and the first on a Nintendo console, it was released in 2008 by Nintendo for the Wii in Japan. A remaster for eighth and ninth generation consoles and Windows published by Koei Tecmo was released worldwide in 2023.

FC 24	EA Sports FC 24 is an association football-themed simulation video game developed by EA Vancouver and EA Romania and published by EA Sports. It is the inaugural installment in the EA Sports FC series, succeeding the FIFA video game series after Electronic Arts's partnership with FIFA concluded with FIFA 23. EA Sports FC 24 is the 31st overall installment of EA Sports' football simulation games, and was released on 29 September 2023 for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.

Final Fantasy VII Rebirth	Final Fantasy VII Rebirth is a 2024 action role-playing game developed and published by Square Enix. The game is a sequel to Final Fantasy VII Remake (2020) and the second in a planned trilogy of games remaking the 1997 PlayStation game Final Fantasy VII. 

Final Fantasy VII Remake Intergrade	Final Fantasy VII Remake is an action role-playing game by Square Enix and released for PlayStation 4 in April 2020. An enhanced version, Final Fantasy VII Remake Intergrade, was released for PlayStation 5 and Windows in 2021. 

Final Fantasy XIV	Final Fantasy XIV is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) developed and published by Square Enix. Directed and produced by Naoki Yoshida and released worldwide for PlayStation 3 and Windows in August 2013, it replaced the failed 2010 version, with subsequent support for PlayStation 4, OS X, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X and Series S. Final Fantasy XIV is set in the fantasy region of Eorzea, five years after the devastating Seventh Umbral Calamity which ended the original version. In the Calamity, the elder primal Bahamut escaped from his prison, an ancient space station called Dalamud, unleashing an apocalypse across Eorzea. Through temporal magic, the player character of the original version escaped, reappearing at the start of A Realm Reborn. As Eorzea cements its recovery, the player must fend off a reignited invasion from the Garlean Empire.

Final Fantasy XVI	Final Fantasy XVI is a 2023 action role-playing game developed and published by Square Enix. The sixteenth main installment in the Final Fantasy series, it was released for the PlayStation 5. The game features segmented open environments and an action-based combat system involving melee and magic-based attacks. There are recurring series features including Chocobos for area travel, and summoned monsters called Eikons, which are both fought as bosses and used through channelling their power in combat.

Football Manager 2023	Football Manager 2023 is the most played version of Football Manager, as of June 2023, with more than double the users than average. Football Manager games usually have around two million players per year, however FM23 more than doubled this and had five million players.

Forspoken	According to director Takeshi Aramaki, the gameplay was designed to be focused on terrain traversal speed and fluidity. Square Enix also described the game as a "narrative-driven adventure". The character exists in an open world game format where players are able to travel anywhere at any time.

Fortnite	Fortnite is an online video game and game platform developed by Epic Games and released in 2017. It is available in six distinct game mode versions that otherwise share the same general gameplay and game engine: Fortnite Battle Royale, a free-to-play battle royale game in which up to 100 players fight to be the last person standing; Fortnite: Save the World, a cooperative hybrid tower defense-shooter and survival game in which up to four players fight off zombie-like creatures and defend objects with traps and fortifications they can build; and Fortnite Creative, in which players are given complete freedom to create worlds and battle arenas, Lego Fortnite, Rocket Racing and Fortnite Festival.

Freedom Planet 2	Critics called Freedom Planet 2 a general improvement over the first game in the series, and also noted how it became less similar to the Sonic series and adopted its own unique graphical and gameplay style.

Genshin Impact	Genshin Impact is an action role-playing game developed by miHoYo, published by miHoYo in mainland China and worldwide by Cognosphere, d/b/a HoYoverse. It was released for Android, iOS, PlayStation 4, and Windows in 2020, and on PlayStation 5 in 2021. The game features an anime-style open-world environment and an action-based battle system using elemental magic and character-switching. A free-to-play game monetized through gacha game mechanics, Genshin Impact is expanded regularly through patches using the games as a service model.

Ghost of Tsushima Director's Cut	Ghost of Tsushima is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Sucker Punch Productions and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The player controls Jin Sakai, a samurai on a quest to protect Tsushima Island during the first Mongol invasion of Japan. Jin must choose between following the warrior code to fight honorably, or using practical but dishonorable methods of repelling the Mongols with minimal casualties. The game features a large open world which can be explored either on foot or on horseback. When facing enemies, the player can choose to engage in a direct confrontation using Jin's katana or to become a legendary warrior known as "the Ghost" by using stealth tactics to assassinate opponents. A multiplayer mode titled Ghost of Tsushima: Legends was released in October 2020 and made available separately in September 2021.

Ghost of Tsushima: Legends	Ghost of Tsushima is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Sucker Punch Productions and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The player controls Jin Sakai, a samurai on a quest to protect Tsushima Island during the first Mongol invasion of Japan. Jin must choose between following the warrior code to fight honorably, or using practical but dishonorable methods of repelling the Mongols with minimal casualties. The game features a large open world which can be explored either on foot or on horseback. When facing enemies, the player can choose to engage in a direct confrontation using Jin's katana or to become a legendary warrior known as "the Ghost" by using stealth tactics to assassinate opponents. A multiplayer mode titled Ghost of Tsushima: Legends was released in October 2020 and made available separately in September 2021.

Ghostrunner 2	The game is played from a first-person perspective. The playable character Jack is very agile, being able to traverse dangerous environments by dashing, jumping, wall-running, and sliding. He can also utilize a grappling hook to swing through the environment, and use "Sensory Boost", which briefly slows down time, allowing Jack to strafe through the air. The game also introduces a stamina meter, which dictates how frequent players can dash and deflect attacks. While a sword is the player's primary weapon, Jack also has access to several special abilities, which can be used in both combat scenarios and solving puzzles. For instance, the "Shuriken" ability, which allows Jack to throw multiple electrical throwing stars, can be used to stun enemies as well as hitting distant switches. Both Jack and his enemy have very limited health, and both can be killed in one hit.

Ghostwire: Tokyo	Ghostwire: Tokyo is a 2022 action-adventure game developed by Tango Gameworks and published by Bethesda Softworks. The game is directed by Kenji Kimura, who also co-wrote the narrative with Syoji Ishimine and Seiji Ebihara. The story is set in a fictionalized interpretation of Tokyo, Japan that has been overrun by supernatural entities unleashed on the city by an occultist. The player character, a boy named Akito who was fatally injured in a car crash, is found and possessed by a spirit who imbues him with several abilities, allowing him to fight against the specters, investigate the disappearances of Tokyo's population, and save his family.

Gotham Knights	Gameplay is presented from the third-person perspective with a primary focus on using each playable character's traversal and combat abilities to defeat enemies and explore the environment. Players can freely move around Gotham City, interacting with characters, undertaking missions, and gaining experience points and other resources to level up their characters and equipment. Outside of the story, players are able to complete side missions to unlock additional content and collectible items. A cooperative online multiplayer mode is also included, allowing two players to play through the single-player campaign together while progressing in their own game.

Gothic Remake	Gothic is a 2001 fantasy-themed action role-playing video game for Microsoft Windows developed by Piranha Bytes. A Nintendo Switch port, titled Gothic Classic, was released worldwide on September 28, 2023.

Grand Theft Auto Online	Grand Theft Auto Online is an online multiplayer action-adventure game developed by Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games. It was released on 1 October 2013 for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, 18 November 2014 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, 14 April 2015 for Windows, and 15 March 2022 for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S. The game is the online component of Grand Theft Auto V. Set within the fictional state of San Andreas (based on Southern California), Grand Theft Auto Online allows up to 30 players to explore its open world environment and engage in cooperative or competitive game matches.

Grand Theft Auto VI	An upcoming game?<mct>Grand Theft Auto VI is an upcoming action-adventure game in development by Rockstar Games. It is due to be the eighth main Grand Theft Auto game, following Grand Theft Auto V (2013), and the sixteenth entry overall. Set within the fictional open world state of Leonidabased on Floridaand its Miami-inspired Vice City, the story is expected to follow criminal duo Lucia and her male partner.

Grounded	Grounded is a survival action-adventure video game developed by Obsidian Entertainment and published by Xbox Game Studios. It was released for Windows and Xbox One in early access in July 2020. It was fully released on September 27, 2022. Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5 versions will be released on April 16, 2024.

Hades	Players control Zagreus, the son of Hades, as he attempts to escape from the Underworld to reach Mount Olympus, at times aided by gifts the other Olympians bestow on him. Each run contains a random series of rooms populated with enemies and rewards. The game features a hack and slash combat system; the player uses a combination of a main weapon attack, a special attack, a dash ability, and a magic ability to defeat enemies while avoiding damage to progress as far as possible. While Zagreus will often die, the player can use the treasure gained during runs to improve certain attributes or unlock new weapons and abilities to improve the chance of escaping on subsequent runs.

Helldivers II	Helldivers 2 (stylised as Helldivers II) is a third-person shooter developed by Arrowhead Game Studios and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The game is the sequel to Helldivers, a 2015 top-down shooter. It was released for PlayStation 5 and Windows on 8 February 2024. It received positive reviews from critics and sold approximately one million units in the first three days after release.

Hell Let Loose	Hell Let Loose is a 2019 multiplayer tactical first-person shooter video game developed by Expression Games and Cover 6 Studios and published by Team17. Players fight in iconic battles of the Western, North African and Eastern Fronts of World War II at the platoon level.

Hello Neighbor 2	Hello Neighbor is a survival horror stealth game developed by Dynamic Pixels and published by tinyBuild. Initially released as public alphas from 2016 to 2017, it received a full release for Windows and Xbox One on December 8, 2017, and later for PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, iOS and Android on July 26, 2018.

Hi-Fi Rush	Hi-Fi Rush follows self-proclaimed "future rock star" Chai (voiced by Robbie Daymond in English and Hiro Shimono in Japanese), whose music player is accidentally embedded in his chest during experimental cybernetic surgery, allowing him to rhythmically fight and re-perceive the world through environmental synesthesia. Labelled a "defect" and hunted by the corporation that transformed him, Chai bands together with new friends to defeat the company's executives and put a stop to their plans. Hi-Fi Rush includes licensed music from bands such as The Black Keys and Nine Inch Nails.

Hot Wheels Unleashed 2: Turbocharged	The game received generally favorable reviews upon release.

Jett: The Far Shore	Jett: The Far Shore is an action-adventure exploration game. In the game, the player assumes control of Mei, a "Jett scout" who must explore an ocean planet and examine its wildlife while tracing the source of a mysterious signal known as the "hymnwave". In the game, Mei commands a vehicle named "jett" in order to quickly navigate the sea and the land. Mei can speed up the jett scout using thrusters, and used abilities such as hopping into the air and rolling, though performing these actions in short succession may short-circuit the engine.

JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: All Star Battle R	A remaster featuring additional content, titled JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: All Star Battle R was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Microsoft Windows via Steam on September 2, 2022.

Jurassic World Evolution 2	Similar to the first game, Evolution 2 is a business simulation in which the player constructs a Jurassic World prehistoric theme park. The game features more than 75 prehistoric species, including various dinosaurs, pterosaurs and marine reptiles. Players need to build enclosures, aviaries and lagoons to contain these animals for visitors' viewing. These animals have different needs, such as the type of food they eat and the extent of forestation they require in their habitat, that must be met to keep them healthy and satisfied. The game features a dynamic territory system which sees animals combating against each other for resources if they live in the same habitat. Their territories are constantly shifting depending on the resources available in their habitat. When compared with its predecessors, the game features a more complex artificial intelligence for the prehistoric species, which will now hunt in packs and interact with others more frequently and realistically. The terrain tool was completely reworked, with players needing to plant the appropriate trees and shrubs for the herbivores to eat.

Just Dance 2023 Edition	Just Dance 2023 Edition is a 2022 dance rhythm game developed and published by Ubisoft. It was unveiled on September 10, 2022 during the Ubisoft Forward September 2022 web presentation as the fourteenth main installment of the series. It marks a new release form for the series, switching to a live service format with annual downloadable content song packs. The game was released on November 22, 2022, for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X/S. It was also planned for release on Stadia, but that port of the game was cancelled due to the service's shutdown on January 18, 2023.

Just Dance 2024 Edition	Just Dance 2024 Edition is a 2023 dance rhythm game developed and published by Ubisoft. It was unveiled on June 12, 2023 during the Ubisoft Forward June 2023 presentation as the fifteenth installment in the series and the second annual song pack after its predecessor Just Dance 2023 Edition. It was released on October 24, 2023 for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X/S.

Kerbal Space Program: Enhanced Edition	Kerbal Space Program (KSP) is a space flight simulation video game developed by Mexican studio Squad for Linux, macOS, Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S and Xbox One. In the game, players direct a space program, staffed and crewed by green humanoid aliens known as "Kerbals". The game features a psuedorealistic orbital physics engine, allowing for various real-life orbital maneuvers such as Hohmann transfer orbits and orbital rendezvous.

KeyWe	KeyWe is a 2021 puzzle-platform video game developed by Stonewheat & Sons and published by Sold Out. The game was released for Windows and Nintendo Switch on August 31, later releasing on September 28 for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5. Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S ports were released on December 16. KeyWe follows Jeff and Debra, two kiwis working at the Bungalow Basin Telepost Office. KeyWe was prototyped during the 2018 Global Game Jam. Grant Gessel, the technical artist, took inspiration from Going Postal, a story by Terry Pratchett. Rare games such as Banjo-Kazooie and Conker's Bad Fur Day inspired KeyWe's art style. KeyWe received mixed reviews from critics.    

Klonoa Phantasy Reverie Series	The collection contains updated versions of both games designed to run at 60 frames-per-second and up to 4K resolution on certain platforms, with added features such as adjustable difficulty and a two-player cooperative mode. It was released in July 2022 for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S, for the franchise's 25th anniversary.

The Last of Us Part I	The Last of Us Part I is a 2022 action-adventure game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. A remake of the 2013 game The Last of Us, it features revised gameplay, including enhanced combat and exploration, and expanded accessibility options. Players control Joel, who is tasked with escorting the young Ellie across a post-apocalyptic United States and defend her against cannibalistic creatures infected by a mutated strain of the Cordyceps fungus. The game includes a remake of the 2014 expansion pack The Last of Us: Left Behind, which follows Ellie and her best friend Riley. The original game's online multiplayer mode is omitted.

The Last of Us Part II Remastered	The Last of Us Part II is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. Set five years after The Last of Us (2013), the game focuses on two playable characters in a post-apocalyptic United States whose lives intertwine: Ellie, who sets out in revenge for a murder, and Abby, a soldier who becomes involved in a conflict between her militia and a religious cult. The game uses a third-person perspective; the player must fight human enemies and cannibalistic zombie-like creatures with firearms, improvised weapons, and stealth.

The Last Worker	Players control the last human worker in an otherwise automated fulfillment center.  At first, players solve puzzles to correctly sort packages.  After the protagonist is convinced by revolutionaries to sabotage the facility, stealth game elements are added, and players must engage in additional puzzles while maintaining high productivity levels.  If their productivity falls below a certain level, they are fired from their job.  Players are assisted by a robot sidekick named Skew.  As the revolutionaries' demands become greater, players must choose whether they wish to continue assisting the revolutionaries, ally with the tech CEO who owns the warehouse, or seek more personal fulfillment.

The Legend of Heroes: Trails Through Daybreak II	Trails, known as Kiseki () in Japan, is a series of science fantasy role-playing video games by Nihon Falcom. It is a part of their larger The Legend of Heroes franchise and began with the release of Trails in the Sky in 2004. Trails features a large cast of characters and consists of interconnected story arcs set in different nations on the continent of Zemuria: Liberl (Trails in the Sky), Crossbell, Erebonia (Trails of Cold Steel), and Calvard (Trails Through Daybreak). The series primarily features turn-based combat, with a few spin-offs and more recent entries featuring other styles of gameplay.

Lies of P	Lies of P is a Soulslike action role-playing video game developed by Neowiz Games and Round8 Studio, and published by Neowiz Games. The game was released for Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, Windows, macOS on September 18, and PlayStation 4, and PlayStation 5 on September 19, 2023. It is loosely based on the 1883 Italian novel The Adventures of Pinocchio by Carlo Collodi.

Life Is Strange Remastered Collection	Life Is Strange is a series of adventure games published by Square Enix's External Studios. Created by Dontnod Entertainment, the series debuted with the eponymous first installment, which was released in five episodes throughout 2015. It was followed by a prequel, Life Is Strange: Before the Storm, which was developed by Deck Nine and released in three episodes throughout 2017, with a downloadable content (DLC) bonus episode released in early 2018. The sequel Life Is Strange 2 and its spin-off The Awesome Adventures of Captain Spirit were developed by Dontnod and released between 2018 and 2019. A third main installment, Life Is Strange: True Colors, was released in its entirety on 10 September 2021. Additionally, a remastered collection of the original game and its prequel was released in February 2022.

Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth	Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth is a role-playing video game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega. The game is the ninth mainline entry of the Like a Dragon series, and a direct sequel to Yakuza: Like a Dragon (2020) and the spin-off title Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name (2023).

Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name	Like a Dragon Gaiden was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on November 9, 2023 and received generally positive reviews from critics.

Like a Dragon: Ishin!	Ry ga Gotoku Ishin! is an action-adventure video game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4. It is a spin-off of the Like a Dragon series, formerly and commonly known in English localization as Yakuza. It was released on February 22, 2014, exclusively in Japan, serving as a launch title for the PlayStation 4. A remake, Like a Dragon: Ishin!, was released in February 2023 for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. It was developed using Unreal Engine 4, and received a worldwide release unlike the original game.

Lineage W	Although the game was set for worldwide release in 2021, it is still unavailable in regions outside of Asia. The game is also set to be released for the PlayStation 5 and Nintendo Switch.

The Lord of the Rings: Gollum	The Lord of the Rings: Gollum is an action-adventure game developed by Daedalic Entertainment, who also published the game with Nacon. The game, set in the fictional world of Middle-earth created by J. R. R. Tolkien, takes place in between the events of The Hobbit and The Fellowship of the Ring. The player controls Gollum through a series of locations, such as Cirith Ungol, Barad-dr, and Mirkwood, as he attempts to find Bilbo Baggins and retake the One Ring whilst battling and avoiding Sauron. It was announced in March 2019 and delayed from its September 2021 launch window.

Lords of the Fallen Remake	Lords of the Fallen is an action role-playing video game developed by Hexworks and published by CI Games. A successor to the 2014 video game of the same name, the game was released for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on 13 October 2023. Upon release, it received mixed-to-positive reviews from critics and sold over one million units in the first ten days since release.

Maid of Sker	Maid of Sker (/skr/) is a 2020 first-person survival horror game developed and published by Wales Interactive. The game is set in 1898 in the Sker Hotel, on an imaginary island called Sker Island. The protagonist, Thomas Evans, is invited by his lover, Elisabeth Williams, to uncover the mysteries of the hotel after she notices her family's strange behavior. While exploring the hotel, Thomas learns cult followers called "The Quiet Ones" control the place. He finds notes and gramophone records scattered around the hotel that reveal the history of Elisabeth's family.

Maquette	The player controls a person reliving a past relationship, solving puzzles to progress through memories. The game's story is told through voiced dialogue and notes scattered throughout the world. Every chapter, the player enters a new environment. In the center of that environment there is a table. When placing objects from the game's world onto the table, that action is mirrored in the world outside. Using this, the player places objects in order to access new areas or find items to solve puzzles.

Martha Is Dead	Martha Is Dead is a story-driven horror game that is presented in a first-person perspective. There are no foes to defeat  instead, the user advances through the story's experiences. The game has been described as a walking simulator.

MechWarrior 5: Mercenaries	MechWarrior 5: Mercenaries is set in the BattleTech universe. The game starts in 3015 during the final decade of the Third Succession War, casting the player as a rookie mercenary MechWarrior rising from the ashes of a demolished mercenary unit. They are able to accept contracts from the various factions available in this time period. The campaign goes all the way up to 3049, just before the Clan Invasion.

The Medium	The Medium is a psychological horror video game developed and published by Bloober Team. It was released for Windows and Xbox Series X/S on January 28, 2021, for PlayStation 5 on September 3, 2021, for Amazon Luna on February 17, 2022, and for macOS on August 31, 2023. A Nintendo Switch version came out on July 29, 2023.

A Memoir Blue	A Memoir Blue is an interactive story video game described by its developers as "an interactive poem". It depicts a fantastical version of swimming athlete Miriam's childhood memories. Players progress through the story by interacting with objects in each scene and moving them around, like clicking on jellyfish that light up or stamping a train ticket. The game utilizes a mixture of 2D and 3D animations, where Miriam's childhood memories are represented in 2D, and Miriam in present day is represented in 3D.

Metal: Hellsinger	Metal: Hellsinger is a rhythmic first-person shooter video game developed by Swedish developer The Outsiders for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. It is published by Funcom and was released on September 15, 2022.

Metro Exodus Complete Edition	Metro Exodus is a 2019 first-person shooter game developed by 4A Games and published by Deep Silver. The game is the third installment in the Metro video game series, which is based on Dmitry Glukhovsky's novels. It is a sequel to Metro: Last Light and the book Metro 2035, and follows protagonist Artyom and his crew as they flee the Moscow Metro and set off with their allies on an intercontinental journey to the Far East on a locomotive called Aurora. The story takes place over a year, during which Artyom visits locations such as the Volga River and the Caspian Sea. The game improves on the gameplay mechanics of Last Light; it includes several miniature open world locations and has linear levels like earlier games in the series.

Marvel's Midnight Suns	Midnight Suns released for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on December 2, 2022. PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions were released on May 11, 2023. A Nintendo Switch version was also planned but later canceled. The game received generally positive reviews from critics, but was a commercial flop.

Mobile Suit Gundam: Battle Operation 2	The popularity of the Japanese anime metaseries Gundam since its release in 1979 has resulted in a spread of merchandise across various forms, with video games among them. 

Monster Energy Supercross: The Official Videogame 4	Monster Energy Supercross: The Official Videogame was first released on February 13, 2018, and featured the 2017 Monster Energy Supercross schedule, locale and riders. The introductory title featured a Career and a Track Editor mode. The Track Editor mode requires online access and allows the player to upload tracks for others to try. There is also a rewind-feature available during racing. Career mode allowed for racing on 250cc and 450cc Motocross Bikes. The annual revisions have added improved physics, graphics, an update of tracks and rider rosters. The third revision allowed for use of female avatars in the Rider Creation process.

Mortal Kombat 1	Mortal Kombat 1 is a 2023 fighting game developed by NetherRealm Studios and published by Warner Bros. Games. It is the twelfth main installment in the Mortal Kombat series, and serves as its second reboot after 2011's Mortal Kombat (2011). The game was released on Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on September 19, 2023.

Mortal Shell: Enhanced Edition	Mortal Shell is a third-person action role-playing game focused on melee combat, where players control one of several "shell" characters with different playstyles.

MultiVersus	Officially announced in November 2021 following online rumors and leaks, early access and open beta versions of the game ran from July 2022 to June 2023. The full launch of the game is scheduled for an early 2024 release.

Mundaun	Mundaun is a 2021 first-person horror game created by Swiss developer Hidden Fields and published by MWM Interactive. In the game, the player tries to reach the top of the mountain while solving puzzles and warding off enemies. The dialogue in the game is mostly spoken in Romansh. Critics praised the game's sketchbook-like art style, but criticized some of the puzzles as being obtuse. The game was released on March 16, 2021 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Microsoft Windows. A Nintendo Switch port was released on May 27. Versions for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S were released on June 29, 2023.

MX vs. ATV Legends	In August 2011, THQ shut down THQ Digital Phoenix (which Rainbow Studios was known as at the time) as well as other game development studios and did not "actively pursue further development" of the MX vs. ATV franchise in a company re-organization. Nevertheless, the series endured THQ's demise, and in April 2013, Nordic Games acquired the franchise through the liquidation of THQ.  Nordic Games then continued the series in 2014 with MX vs. ATV Supercross, then endeavored to bring the series to eighth-generation consoles, porting Supercross to some of them many months later and releasing another sequel for them in 2018, titled MX vs. ATV: All Out. A seventh game for ninth-generation consoles, MX vs. ATV Legends, was released on June 28, 2022.

Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections	Naruto is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Masashi Kishimoto. It tells the story of Naruto Uzumaki, a young ninja who seeks recognition from his peers and dreams of becoming the Hokage, the leader of his village. The story is told in two parts: the first is set in Naruto's pre-teen years (volumes 127), and the second in his teens (volumes 2872). The series is based on two one-shot manga by Kishimoto: Karakuri (1995), which earned Kishimoto an honorable mention in Shueisha's monthly Hop Step Award the following year, and Naruto (1997).

Need for Speed Unbound	Need for Speed Unbound (stylised as NFS Unbound) is a 2022 racing video game developed by Criterion Games and published by Electronic Arts. The game is the twenty-fifth instalment in the Need for Speed series and the successor to 2019's Heat. It is the first game in the series for Criterion since 2013's Rivals with Ghost Games, and the first as the main developer since 2012's Need for Speed: Most Wanted.

Neptunia reVerse	Hyperdimension Neptunia Re;Birth1, a complete remake of the game for the PlayStation Vita, was released on October 31, 2013, in Japan, and in August 2014 in North America and Europe. Re;Birth1 was later released on Microsoft Windows and distributed via Steam.  Neptunia ReVerse is a remake for the PlayStation 5 that was released in December 2020 in Japan, and in June 2021 in North America and Europe.  It adds new features such as Arrange mode allowing any of the playable characters to be used from the start.

Neptunia Shooter	Hyperdimension Neptunia ( , Chjigen Geimu Neputynu, lit. "Super Dimensional Game Neptune") is a series of role-playing video games created and developed by Compile Heart and Idea Factory. The series debuted in Japan on August 19, 2010, with the video game of the same name for the PlayStation 3, which received two sequels, Hyperdimension Neptunia mk2 and Hyperdimension Neptunia Victory. All three games were remade for PlayStation Vita and Windows. Another sequel, titled Megadimension Neptunia VII, as well as multiple spin-off and crossover games were released for various platforms since then. It has also branched off into a manga, light novel and anime media franchise series.

Neptunia: Sisters vs Sisters	Hyperdimension Neptunia ( , Chjigen Geimu Neputynu, lit. "Super Dimensional Game Neptune") is a series of role-playing video games created and developed by Compile Heart and Idea Factory. The series debuted in Japan on August 19, 2010, with the video game of the same name for the PlayStation 3, which received two sequels, Hyperdimension Neptunia mk2 and Hyperdimension Neptunia Victory. All three games were remade for PlayStation Vita and Windows. Another sequel, titled Megadimension Neptunia VII, as well as multiple spin-off and crossover games were released for various platforms since then. It has also branched off into a manga, light novel and anime media franchise series.

NHL 24	NHL 24 has much of its gameplay overhauled from NHL 23, including new total control skill moves, a new exhaust engine, goalie fatigue, passing system, and physics based contact. The new total control skill moves lets the player perform complex deke moves with the tap of a single button. The new passing system lets you pass the puck to other players using the four face buttons on the controller. And the new body checking system works identically to Bruise Control from NHL 2004, which lets you charge your body check and timing it well will result in more successful and harder body checks. Body checking players into benches and broken glass also return to NHL 24.

Nioh Remastered	Nioh (Japanese: , Hepburn: Ni, "Two Deva Kings") is an action role-playing soulslike video game developed by Team Ninja. It was released for PlayStation 4 in February 2017, and was published by Sony Interactive Entertainment internationally, and by Koei Tecmo in Japan. An edition for PlayStation 4 and Windows, containing the game's downloadable content, was released on November 7, 2017 by Koei Tecmo. A remastered version was released for PlayStation 5 on February 5, 2021.

Nioh 2 Remastered	Similar to its predecessor, Nioh 2 is an action role-playing game. Players can create their own playable character, who was a ykai spirit. Players are equipped with a variety of weapons such as odachi and kusarigama, and earn new skills and special abilities as they progress in the game. When players defeat a hostile ykai, some of them may drop a "Soul Core". Soul Cores allow players to use ykai abilities once the cores are purified by visiting a shrine.

Observer: System Redux	Observer (stylised as >observer_) is a psychological horror video game developed by Bloober Team and published by Aspyr. It was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in August 2017, followed by versions for Linux, macOS and Nintendo Switch. An upgraded and expanded version called Observer: System Redux was released in November 2020 for Windows, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X/S, for Amazon Luna in March 2021, and for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in July 2021. Observer follows Daniel Lazarski, a detective known as an Observer, who can hack people's minds as a method of interrogation.

Octopath Traveler II	Octopath Traveler II is a role-playing video game developed by Square Enix and Acquire and published by Square Enix. It is a sequel to Octopath Traveler (2018), and the third entry in the series after the prequel mobile game Octopath Traveler: Champions of the Continent (2020), though it features a new cast of characters and setting separate from prior games. It was released worldwide on February 24, 2023, for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 and Windows; it is the first Octopath game released on PlayStation platforms. The Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S versions are set to release in early 2024.

Oddworld: Soulstorm	Oddworld: Soulstorm is a 2021 platform game developed and published by Oddworld Inhabitants. The game is the sequel to 2014's Oddworld: New 'n' Tasty! and a re-imagining of 1998's Oddworld: Abe's Exoddus as it was originally envisioned. It was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, and Windows in April 2021, with an enhanced edition released in November 2021, alongside versions for Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S. A port for Nintendo Switch, subtitled Oddtimized Edition, was released in November 2022. It received mixed reviews from critics.

OlliOlli World	OlliOlli World is a 2D-platforming skateboarding game. The game takes place in Radlandia, where the player can interact with the game's characters, and take on side quests. To get high scores, the player is required to chain together tricks in order to get combos. The player can ride walls and grind on rails to increase their score. OlliOlli World introduces elements new to the franchise, such as quarter pipes and branching paths. The game has a hand-drawn art style, in contrast to the pixel art of previous entries.

Orcs Must Die! 3	Orcs Must Die! 3 is a 2020 action-tower defense video game developed and published by Robot Entertainment. It is the fourth installment in the Orcs Must Die! series, and the direct sequel to Orcs Must Die! 2. It was released as a timed exclusive on Stadia on July 14, 2020, and for Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S on July 23, 2021.

Overcooked! All You Can Eat	Overcooked (stylised as Overcooked!) is a 2016 cooking simulation video game developed by Ghost Town Games and published by Team17. In a local cooperative experience, players control a number of chefs in kitchens filled with various obstacles and hazards to rapidly prepare meals to specific orders under a time limit. The game was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in August 2016. A Nintendo Switch version was released in July 2017. 

Override 2: Super Mech League	Override 2: Super Mech League is a mech-fighting video game developed by Modus Studios Brazil (formerly The Balance, Inc.) and published by Modus Games. It was released for Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Nintendo Switch and Microsoft Windows on December 22, 2020. It is a sequel to the 2018 game, Override: Mech City Brawl.

Pac-Man Mega Tunnel Battle: Chomp Champs	Pac-Man Mega Tunnel Battle plays similarly to the original Pac-Man arcade game. However, the game has 3D-graphics and up to 64-players can play at a time. The players begin in their own mazes before more areas get unlocked. Once the player eats a power-pellet, the player can either eat ghosts or other Pac-Men like in Pac-Man Battle Royale or Pac-Man Party Royale. If the player gets eaten by a ghost or another Pac-Man, the game is over.

Park Beyond	Park Beyond is a construction and management simulation video game developed by Limbic Entertainment and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. The game was released for Windows PC, PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X and Series S in June 2023.

Pentiment	Pentiment is a 2022 adventure role-playing video game developed by Obsidian Entertainment and published by Xbox Game Studios. The game was released for Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on November 15, 2022. The Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation 5 versions were released on February 22, 2024. It received positive reviews from critics.

Persona 3 Reload	Persona 3 Reload is a 2024 role-playing video game developed and published by Atlus. Reload is a remake of Persona 3 (2006), the fourth main installment of the Persona series, itself a part of the larger Megami Tensei franchise. As with the original game, the protagonist is a high school student returning to his home city a decade after his parents were killed in a fatal car crash. He soon gains the potential to summon a Personathe physical manifestation of his inner spirit, and joins the Specialized Extracurricular Execution Squad (S.E.E.S.), a group of like-minded Persona users. Together, they are tasked with defeating Shadows and uncovering the mystery of the Dark Hour.

Persona 5 Tactica	Persona 5 Tactica is a 2023 tactical role-playing game developed and published by Atlus. The game is a title from the Persona series, itself a part of the larger Megami Tensei franchise, and was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. An additional story chapter, "Repaint Your Heart", was released as downloadable content on the same day.

Payday 3	Payday 3 is a cooperative first-person shooter game developed by Starbreeze Studios and published by Deep Silver. The game is a sequel to Payday 2, and is the third installment in the Payday series. It was released for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on 21 September 2023. It received mixed reviews from critics and failed to meet the sales expectations of Embracer Group and Starbreeze.

A Plague Tale: Requiem	A Plague Tale: Requiem is an action-adventure stealth video game developed by Asobo Studio and published by Focus Entertainment. The game is the sequel to A Plague Tale: Innocence (2019), and follows siblings Amicia and Hugo de Rune who must look for a cure to Hugo's blood disease in Southern France while fleeing from soldiers of the Inquisition and hordes of rats that are spreading the black plague. It was released for Nintendo Switch (cloud version), PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on 18 October 2022. It received generally positive reviews from critics. At The Game Awards 2022, it received five nominations including Game of the Year.

Planet Zoo: Console Edition	Planet Zoo is a 2019 construction and management simulation game by Frontier Developments for Windows. It was released worldwide on 5 November 2019. The game is a spiritual successor to Zoo Tycoon and Zoo Tycoon 2, with gameplay similar to the studio's theme park game, Planet Coaster. A version for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S, titled Planet Zoo: Console Edition, was announced on 30 January 2024 and set to be released on 26 March 2024.

Paper Beast: Enhanced Edition	Paper Beast is an adventure game played from a first-person perspective. In the game, players explore a large ecosystem composed of various digital life-forms originating from lost internet codes and algorithms deep inside the internet. In the adventure mode, the player assumes control of the first explorer and must navigate the world through manipulating the environment and interacting with the wildlife. Players are tasked to rescue them from dangers and predators, assist them in various ways, and use their abilities in order to progress in the game. The artificial intelligence, which governs the behaviors of these animals, will react to the player's actions accordingly. Each species in the game also behaves differently and they have their own unique goals. The player can also modify the terrain so as to overcome environmental obstacles.

Quake	Quake is a first-person shooter game developed by id Software and published by GT Interactive. The first game in the Quake series, it was originally released for MS-DOS, Microsoft Windows and Linux in 1996, followed by Mac OS and Sega Saturn in 1997 and Nintendo 64 in 1998. In the game, players must find their way through various maze-like, medieval environments while battling monsters using an array of weaponry. Quake takes inspiration from gothic fiction and the works of H. P. Lovecraft.

Quantum Error	Quantum Error is a shooter game with cosmic horror themes that can be played in either first-person or third-person perspective. Players control Jacob Thomas, a firefighter, as he attempts to deal with various issues at research facilities in outer space. Players must contend with both terrorists and monsters while attempting to rescue survivors using firefighting equipment.  DualSense controllers provide feedback when encountering hazards, such as vibrating to indicate doors that are dangerously hot.  Players can use quintessence to improve Thomas' skills, but there are no skill trees.  Players' progress is saved at checkpoints.

R-Type Final 3 Evolved	The western versions of the game are published by NIS America. R-Type Final 2 is the first game in the series to be released outside of Japan since R-Type Dimensions in 2009. It was released on April 30, 2021, and Final 3 Evolved was released in late April 2023. 

Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart	Rift Apart received positive reviews from critics, with particular praise given to its visuals, combat and technical advancements. The game had sold over 3.97 million units by June 2023. 

Returnal	Returnal is a 2021 roguelike third-person shooter video game developed by Housemarque and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The game was released for the PlayStation 5 on 30 April 2021 and for Windows on 15 February 2023. It follows Selene Vassos, an astronaut who lands on the planet Atropos in search of the mysterious "White Shadow" signal and finds herself trapped in a time loop. 

Rise of the Ronin	Rise of the Rnin allows players to create a custom character. Combat features a wide array of weapons common during the Boshin war, such as katanas and various Boshin war firearms. The game features story choices at key moments, allowing players to side with or fight against various non-player characters, affecting the story. Historic cities Yokohama, Kyoto and Edo can be explored, as well as areas in the countryside. The player can traverse with various means, such as a horse, grappling hook or glider. The game also features the ability to swap between three difficulties, as well as a three player cooperative multiplayer mode.

RoboCop: Rogue City	RoboCop: Rogue City is a 2023 first-person shooter game developed by Teyon and published by Nacon. The game features an original storyline based on the RoboCop films, with Peter Weller reprising his role as the titular character. It was released for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on 2 November 2023, and received generally positive reviews from critics.

Rogue Company	Rogue Company features a range of playable characters, referred to as Rogues. There are 26 playable Rogues in Rogue Company. The game features objective-based game modes and various maps. Matches consist of multiple rounds, with each round usually beginning with both teams skydiving from aircraft to the map below to compete against each other in various objectives. Between rounds players may use money earned from completing tasks and eliminating players in the previous round to buy and upgrade weapons, equipment and perks.

The Rumble Fish 2	On July 13, 2022, 3goo Co., Ltd. announced that The Rumble Fish 2, along with its predecessor, would be released for home consoles with widescreen support in December 2022. This marks the first time that The Rumble Fish 2 leaves arcades officially, and marks the first time that The Rumble Fish 2 receives a worldwide release.

RWBY: Arrowfell	RWBY (pronounced "Ruby") is an American anime-influenced 3D computer-animated web series created by Monty Oum for Rooster Teeth. It is set in the fictional world of Remnant, where young people train to become warriors ("Huntsmen" and "Huntresses") to protect their world from monsters called Grimm. The name RWBY is derived from the four main protagonists' forenames: Ruby Rose, Weiss Schnee, Blake Belladonna and Yang Xiao Long, and their respective thematic colors (red, white, black and yellow).

Saints Row	Saints Row is an action-adventure game developed by Volition and published by Deep Silver. It is a reboot of the Saints Row series, and the fifth main installment, following 2013's Saints Row IV. It was released on August 23, 2022 for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Google Stadia. Set within the fictional city of Santo Ileso, loosely based on Las Vegas, the single-player story follows a group of four friends who start their own outlaw gang called the Saints, which they subsequently expand by seizing power from other criminal organizations in the city.

Salt and Sacrifice	Similar to its predecessor, Salt and Sacrifice was inspired by the Dark Souls series of games. Instead of having one large map, the game's world is split into five separate zones. To progress in the game and unlock new areas players must devour Mage hearts and initiate Mage Hunts, in which the player character must chase down and defeat various boss characters. Each defeated mage will drop unique armor and weapons which can be used by the players. Each weapon has its own unique skills and movesets. While the player is exploring the game's world, they will encounter hidden tomes which can be used to initiate Fated Mage hunts, hunts players can play through repeatedly in order to collect specific upgrades.  The game features elements commonly seen in Metroidvania games. Previously out-of-reach areas can be accessed once the player collects the necessary traversal items. They will gradually discover different shortcuts that allow them to transverse quickly, though the game does not have a fast travel option.

Sea of Thieves	Sea of Thieves is a 2018 action-adventure game developed by Rare and published by Microsoft Studios. The player assumes the role of a pirate who completes voyages from different trading companies. The multiplayer game sees players explore an open world via a pirate ship from a first-person perspective. Groups of players encounter each other regularly during their adventures, sometimes forming alliances, and sometimes going head-to-head.

Season: A Letter to the Future	Season: A Letter to the Future is a 2023 adventure game developed and published by Scavengers Studio. The player controls a young woman from a small village documenting the world as it comes to an end. The game was released in January 2023 for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, and Windows.

Silent Hill 2	Silent Hill 2is an upcomingsurvival horror videogame developed byBloober Team and published byKonami. It is aremakeof the 2001game of the same name, originally developed byTeam Silent, a group in Konami Computer Entertainment Tokyo(KCET). It will be the first major installment in the Silent Hill series sinceSilent Hill: Downpour (2012). Like the original game, it followsJames Sunderland (Luke Roberts), a widower who returns to the eponymous town of Silent Hill upon receiving a letter from his deceased wife Mary, who claims to be waiting there for him.

Skull and Bones	Skull and Bones is a 2024 action-adventure game developed by Ubisoft Singapore and published by Ubisoft. The game revolves around piracy and naval warfare with a fantastical setting in East Africa and Southeast Asia during the late 17th century, the peak of the historical Golden Age of Piracy. It was released for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on February 16, 2024, after multiple delays and developmental difficulties, to negative reviews.

South Park: Snow Day!	The game centers around the four main charactersEric Cartman, Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski and Kenny McCormickparticipating in snow-based fights and activities.

Sniper Elite 5	Similar to its predecessors, Sniper Elite 5 is a third-person shooter. Similar to Sniper Elite 4, the game features several large levels, which provide players with various opportunities to infiltrate and extract. When the player kills an enemy using a sniper rifle from a long distance, the X-Ray kill cam system will activate, in which the game's camera follows the bullet from the sniper rifle to the target, and shows body parts, bones or internal body organs being broken or ruptured by the bullet. Weapons in the game can be customized extensively. The single-player campaign can be played cooperatively with another player. The game introduces Invasion mode, which allows a third player to join a game session and play as an enemy sniper. A survival mode, which accommodates up to four players, is also featured.

Sonic Origins Plus	Origins was conceived following the release of the 2020 Sonic film, due to the influx of new fans, Sonic Team head Takashi Iizuka wanted to make the older Sonic games available on modern hardware. The remasters of Sonic the Hedgehog, Sonic 2, and Sonic CD are based on the Retro Engine-developed remakes released between 2011 and 2013, while Simon Thomley and his studio Headcannon, who worked on Sonic Mania (2017), developed the remaster of Sonic 3 & Knuckles. Jun Senoue replaced a portion of the Sonic 3 soundtrack, following speculation of licensing problems arising from Michael Jackson's involvement with Sonic 3.

Sonic Superstars	Sonic Team's head, Takashi Iizuka, wanted to modernize Sonic's traditional side-scrolling formula so it could continue independently from the 3D games. After plans for another collaboration with the developers of Sonic Mania (2017) fell through, Iizuka began discussing a collaboration with Arzest, a studio founded by Sonic co-creator Naoto Ohshima. Development on Superstars, which marked Ohshima's first contribution to a Sonic game since Sonic Adventure (1998), began in 2021. Arzest sought to replicate the Genesis Sonic gameplay while innovating with new game mechanics, with the Chaos Emerald powers introduced to encourage players to seek all seven.

Sonic X Shadow Generations	Sonic Generations is a 2011 platform game developed by Sonic Team and published by Sega for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Windows, and Nintendo 3DS. Produced in commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the Sonic the Hedgehog series, the game follows Sonic and his sidekick Tails as they form an alliance with their modern selves. It features two gameplay styles: "Classic", which plays from a side-scrolling perspective like that of the original Sega Genesis Sonic games, and "Modern", 3D levels similar to those in Sonic Unleashed (2008) and Sonic Colors (2010).

Spacelords	Spacelords is an asymmetric online adventure game. There are gameplay elements which task the players to shoot and brawl and utilize strategy. A story mode, which will be released episodically, is also planned.

Marvel's Spider-Man 2	Marvel's Spider-Man 2 is a 2023 action-adventure game developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. It is based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man, and features a narrative inspired by its long-running comic book mythology which is also derived from various adaptations in other media. It is the third entry in the Marvel's Spider-Man series, acting as a sequel to Marvel's Spider-Man (2018) and a follow-up to Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales (2020). In this installment, Peter Parker and Miles Morales struggle to navigate the next steps in their personal lives while combating several new threats, including a private militia led by Kraven the Hunter, who transforms New York City into a hunting ground for super-powered individuals; and the extraterrestrial Venom symbiote, which bonds itself to Parker and negatively influences him, threatening to destroy all his personal relationships. 

Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales	Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. Based on the Marvel Comics character Miles Morales, it is inspired by both the character's decade-long comic book mythology and appearances in other media. The game is a spin-off and continuation of Marvel's Spider-Man (2018), and the second installment in Insomniac's Spider-Man series. The narrative focuses on Miles' struggle to balance the duties of his civilian persona and his role as the second Spider-Man when his new home, Harlem, is threatened by a war between the Roxxon Energy Corporation and a high-tech criminal army called the Underground, led by the mysterious Tinkerer.

Marvel's Spider-Man Remastered	Marvel's Spider-Man is a 2018 action-adventure game developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. Based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man, it tells an original narrative that is inspired by the long-running comic book mythology, while also drawing from various adaptations in other media. In the main story, the super-human crime lord Mister Negative orchestrates a plot to seize control of New York City's criminal underworld. When Mister Negative threatens to release a deadly virus, Spider-Man must confront him and protect the city while dealing with the personal problems of his civilian persona, Peter Parker.

Spirit of the North: Enhanced Edition	The game received an aggregate score of 58/100 on Metacritic for its original Windows version, indicating "mixed or average reviews". Similarly, its Switch version received 59/100, and PlayStation 4 version, 67/100. The PlayStation 5 version received an aggregate score of 64/100.

Star Ocean: The Divine Force	Star Ocean: The Divine Force is a 2022 action role-playing game developed by tri-Ace and published by Square Enix. It is the sixth major installment in the Star Ocean series and was released for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on October 27. The game's score was composed by series regular Motoi Sakuraba, with character art designed by Akira Yasuda. The game received mixed to positive reception from critics, with some praising the combat, characters, and narrative but many feeling that it was a step down in terms of graphics and that there was some performance inconsistency.

Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic  Remake	Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR) is a media franchise of space western role-playing video games created and developed by BioWare, which have seen releases on the original Xbox, Xbox 360, Microsoft Windows, OS X, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, IOS and Android. The franchise takes place in the fictional universe of Star Wars by George Lucas. 

Star Wars Jedi: Survivor	Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is a 2023 action-adventure game developed by Respawn Entertainment and published by Electronic Arts. The game is the sequel to Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order (2019), taking place five years after the events of the previous game and continues the adventure of young Jedi Knight, Cal Kestis, as he and his friends continue in their struggle to survive the tyranny of the Galactic Empire. 

Steelrising	Steelrising is an action role-playing video game played from a third-person perspective. As the player progresses in the game and defeat enemies, they will collect Anima Essence, which can be used to upgrade the player's weapons and skills, though upgrading the character can only be done at "Vestal" checkpoints found throughout the world. The Vestal checkpoints also allow the player character to rest to replenish their health. Players are encouraged to play aggressively in the game, as stamina refills entirely after a brief cooldown. The game features an "Assist mode", which allows players to manually adjust various factors of gameplay in order to lower the game's difficulty.

Stellar Blade	Stellar Blade is an upcoming action-adventure game developed by Shift Up and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The game is scheduled to be released for the PlayStation 5 on April 26, 2024.

Street Outlaws 2: Winner Takes All	Street Outlaws is an American reality television series. The series premiered on Discovery Channel on June 10, 2013. The show has 15 seasons in total.

Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League	Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League is a 2024 action-adventure shooter game developed by Rocksteady Studios and published by Warner Bros. Games. Based on the DC Comics team Suicide Squad, it is a spin-off of the Batman: Arkham series, and a follow-up to Batman: Arkham Knight (2015). Set five years after the events of Arkham Knight, the game's storyline follows four supervillainsCaptain Boomerang, Deadshot, Harley Quinn, and King Sharkwho are assembled by Amanda Waller and sent to Metropolis to stop the alien invader Brainiac and kill the members of the Justice League who fell under his influence.

Super Animal Royale	Super Animal Royale is a 2D, top-down, third-person battle royale shooter where up to 64 players compete to be the last person standing using a variety of weapons. Players create a character from one of several "Super Animals", including different breeds and colors of various species, which are unlocked by collecting animal DNA awarded after each match. Experience points are granted based on the player's performance at the end of each game, which allow them to level up and gain access to new potential species. Cosmetic items can also be obtained that can be used to customize an animal's appearance such as shirts, hats, mustaches, and glasses.

Synduality	Synduality (stylized in all caps) is a Japanese mixed-media project created by the Bandai Namco Group. An anime television series produced by Bandai Namco Filmworks and animated by Eight Bit, titled Synduality: Noir, aired from July to September 2023. A second cour premiered in January 2024.

Tails of Iron	After invading frogs kill his father, young King Redgi, an anthropomorphic rat, attempts to defeat the invaders and rescue the rest of his family.  Tails of Iron is a side-scrolling Soulslike game, a genre that focuses on boss fights in which players must carefully time their attacks and defense.  Players can customize Redgi with different skills and change their build to fit specific battles. There are three main hand-to-hand weapon types spears, swords, and axes. All these weapons play differently from each other and have their own advantages and disadvantages. these weapon types are used in the light weapon category and the heavy weapon category. there are also ranged weapons with three main categories those being bows, crossbows, and fire arms. Each have different fire rates which effect your play style and when you use the ranged weapon. Using heavy equipment can slow down players' movements but provide better attack and defense values.  As Redgi defeats enemies and progresses through the story, the kingdom slowly recovers.  It has a hand-drawn art style.

The Talos Principle 2	Similar to its predecessor, The Talos Principle 2 is a first-person puzzle game; the core mechanic for the player is to be able to press a button at the end of an enclosed puzzle, which is separated from the entrance of the puzzle by various mechanics the player must utilize to gain access. To complete the main story, the player must complete 8 different puzzles in each of the 12 main areas. When eight puzzles in an area are complete, the player can then complete a tetromino puzzle to build a bridge in order to reach a large structure in the middle of the area. While there is no map for each area, the game HUD features a compass that features most relevant locations. Players can also find "sparks" hidden around an area: Utilizing a spark allows players to clear one puzzle without solving it.

Tekken 8	Tekken 8 (Japanese: 8) is a fighting game developed by Bandai Namco Studios and Arika. Bandai Namco Entertainment published the game for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on January 26, 2024. It is the eighth canon release and tenth overall entry in the Tekken series. The game story mode, titled The Dark Awakens, takes place six months after the events of its predecessor and focuses on the final confrontation between the main characters, father Kazuya Mishima and son Jin Kazama, with the latter wishing to kill the former in order to end the chaos within their family lineage. The game's story features 32 former and new characters, each with their own narrative that contributes to the overall story.

Temtem	Temtem is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) developed by Spanish development studio Crema, and published by Humble Bundle. The game was released in early access through Steam on January 21, 2020, and PlayStation 5 on December 8, 2020 with the Nintendo Switch and Xbox Series X/S versions of the game was released alongside the full release of the game on September 6, 2022. The game uses the Unity development engine, and is a creature-collection video game greatly inspired by Game Freak's Pokmon series. The game was partly funded through the crowdfunding platform Kickstarter, from May to June 2018.

Terminator: Resistance Enhanced	Terminator: Resistance is a 2019 first-person shooter game developed by Teyon and published by Reef Entertainment for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One. The game is based on the Terminator franchise, set during the original future war depicted in the films The Terminator and Terminator 2: Judgment Day. It was released in Europe on 15 November 2019. In the United States, the Windows version was released a day earlier through Steam, while the other versions released on 7 January 2020. An enhanced version of the game for PlayStation 5 was released on 30 April 2021. The same version was released for Xbox Series X/S on 27 October 2023. It received generally mixed reviews from critics.

Test Drive Unlimited Solar Crown	Test Drive Unlimited Solar Crown is an upcoming racing video game developed by KT Racing and published by Nacon. It will be the twenty-first game in the Test Drive series, the first title in the series since 2012's Ferrari Racing Legends, and the third game in the franchise's Unlimited reboot, following 2011's Test Drive Unlimited 2. The game was teased on 3 July 2020 on Twitter and was officially revealed during the Nacon Connect event on 7 July. Test Drive Unlimited Solar Crown is set to be released for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X/S in 2024.

TOEM	In the game, the player assumes control of a young photographer who must ascend a mountain to witness a phenomenon known as "Toem". As the player character progresses, they will visit numerous Scandinavian towns and cities that are filled with non-playable characters (NPCs), who will ask the players for help. Gameplay primarily revolves around helping the locals by solving various puzzles using the player character's camera. Players explore the game's world from a top-down perspective, though it will shift to first-person when the player is taking photos. Players earn stamps by helping NPCs, and they can ride on a bus and progress to the next area once they have collected a sufficient number of stamps. The player character's outfits can also be customized.

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege	Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege is an online tactical shooter video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It was released worldwide for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on December 1, 2015; the game was also released for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S exactly five years later on December 1, 2020. The title received a port for Google Stadia on June 30, 2021, and one for Amazon Luna in January 2022. The game puts heavy emphasis on environmental destruction and cooperation between players. Each player assumes control of an attacker or a defender in different gameplay modes such as rescuing a hostage, defusing a bomb, and taking control of an objective within a room. The title has no campaign but features a series of short, offline missions called, "situations" that can be played solo. These missions have a loose narrative, focusing on recruits going through training to prepare them for future encounters with the "White Masks", a terrorist group that threatens the safety of the world.

Tomb Raider IIII Remastered	Tomb Raider IIII Remastered is a 2024 action-adventure video game developed and published by Aspyr. It is a remastered compilation of the first three games in the Tomb Raider series originally developed by Core Design: Tomb Raider (1996), Tomb Raider II (1997), and Tomb Raider III (1998). Remastered was released for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on 14 February 2024. The game received generally mixed reviews from critics.

Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 1 + 2	Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 1 + 2 is a 2020 skateboarding video game developed by Vicarious Visions and published by Activision. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on September 4, 2020, PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S on March 26, 2021, and Nintendo Switch on June 25 of the same year. It is a remake of the first two games in the Tony Hawk's series: Tony Hawk's Pro Skater (1999) and Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 (2000), which were originally developed by Neversoft. It is the first major console game in the series since Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 5 (2015) and is Vicarious Visions' final work as a subsidiary of Activision before it was merged into Blizzard Entertainment on January 22, 2021.

Touhou Luna Nights	In Touhou Luna Nights, Sakuya Izayoi is sent to a parallel universe, and is robbed of her powers. Over the course of the game, she reclaims her powers and escapes to her home land, Gensokyo.

Trek to Yomi	Trek to Yomi is a side-scrolling action game. There are two modes of melee attack; light attacks are fast but weak, and heavy attacks are slow but strong. A well-timed block will break an enemy guard, giving players an opportunity to counter-attack.

Tribes of Midgard	Tribes of Midgard is an action role-playing survival game played from a top-down view. In addition to solo play, players can also form a tribe of 10 players and play cooperatively. In the game, the player assumes control of an Einherjar, a Viking hero who must protect the seed of Yggdrasil from enemies such as Helthings, dark elves, trolls and giants. During day time, the player explores a procedurally generated world, collecting resources used for crafting new weapons, armor, and village defenses. At night time, the enemies will attack the player's settlement in an attempt to destroy the seed of Yggdrasil, and players need to collect the souls of the enemies in order to sustain the seed's life. With each day survived, the enemies in the game will become stronger and more difficult to defeat. The game features eight different gameplay classes, and each class has their own unique combat abilities. The player may also collect runes, which further modify their stats and attributes. The game features two main modes: the story-driven Saga mode, and the more open-ended survival mode.

Trepang2	Gameplay is similar to mid-2000s first-person shooters.  Players control an amnesiac test subject who wakes up in a Horizon black-site.  The protagonist is handcuffed at first and must rely on stealth, but players eventually must fight their way through enemies, both human and paranormal.  During combat, players can slow down the action using a bullet time effect.  Players are sometimes aided by allies.

UFL	UFL is an upcoming free-to-play association football video game developed and published by Striikerz Inc. The game was originally set for release in 2022 and 2023 but has since been delayed to 2024.

Utawarerumono: Zan 2	The game was highly successful in Japan and has since been adapted into a wide variety of other media, including several anime series, drama CDs, and Internet radio programs, and manga.

Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection	Uncharted is an action-adventure video game franchise published by Sony Interactive Entertainment and developed by Naughty Dog. Created by Amy Hennig, the Uncharted franchise follows a group of treasure hunters who travel across the world to uncover various historical mysteries. The series features historical fiction, elements of fantasy and folklore, and fictional characters alongside real-world historical figures and events. In the main series, players control Nathan Drake; in the expansion, players control Chloe Frazer.

Under Night In-Birth II [Sys:Celes]	The first entry in the series, Under Night In-Birth, was released exclusively as an arcade game using Sega's RingEdge 2 arcade board on September 20, 2012 by Sega in Japan. In March 2013, support for Sega's ALL.net P-Ras Multi service was added. A major revision, subsequently entitled Under Night In-Birth Exe:Late (, And naito invsu ekusereito), was released on September 9, 2013. This updated version of the game would receive a port published by Arc System Works for PlayStation 3 in Japan on July 24, 2014. A 2015 release for North America and Europe was later announced, with the North American version published by Aksys Games on February 24, 2015 and the European version released by NIS America on February 27, 2015. Exe:Late was released on Steam for Microsoft Windows systems on July 12, 2016.

Valkyrie Elysium	Valkyrie Elysium is an action role-playing video game developed by Soleil and published by Square Enix. It was released on September 29, 2022 for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5, and on November 11 for Windows. Part of the Valkyrie Profile series, it was the first home console installment in more than 15 years, and the third overall. Like its predecessors, the game is significantly based on Norse mythology, and follows Maria, a valkyrie who is created to find and purify souls to help an injured Odin defeat Fenrir, during Ragnarok. Elysium, a spiritual sequel, uses an action, rather than turn-based, battle system. The game received mixed reviews from critics, who praised the game's character design, artwork, combat system, voice acting, and music, but the narrative was criticized as weak, and the graphical quality was seen as low-budget, with environments lacking in detail or things to interact with.

Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodhunt	Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodhunt is a battle royale game set in the streets and on the rooftops in Prague, in the World of Darkness. It takes place following a vampire gathering in the city, after which war between the vampire sects broke out and the Second Inquisition became involved. Players take the roles of vampires who try to survive the sect war, battling both each other and an entity who tries to exterminate vampires. They can choose to fight on their own or in a team, and use ranged weapons, melee weapons, and vampiric powers. Players also need to conceal their identities as vampires from humans, a practice called the Masquerade.

Vigor	Since its release, over 18,000,000 unique players have played the game.

Warframe	In Warframe, players control members of the Tenno, a race of ancient warriors who have awoken from centuries of suspended animation far into Earth's future to find themselves at war with different factions in the Origin System. The Tenno use their powered Warframes along with a variety of weapons and abilities to complete missions. While many of the game's missions use procedurally-generated levels, it also includes large open world areas similar to other massively multiplayer online games, as well as some story-specific missions with fixed level design. The game includes elements of shooting and melee games, parkour, and role-playing to allow players to advance their Tenno with improved gear. The game includes both player versus environment and player versus player elements. It is supported by microtransactions, which lets players purchase in-game items using money but also offers the option to earn them at no cost through grinding.

Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine II	Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine II is an upcoming third-person shooter hack-n-slash video game developed by Saber Interactive and published by Focus Entertainment.  A sequel to Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine (2011), the game is scheduled to release for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X and Series S on 9 September 2024.

War Thunder	War Thunder is a free-to-play vehicular combat multiplayer video game developed and published by Gaijin Entertainment. Announced in 2011, it was first released in November 2012 as an open beta with a worldwide release in January 2013; it had its official release on December 21, 2016. It has a cross-platform format for Microsoft Windows, macOS, Linux, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Oculus, and Vive. A spinoff game called War Thunder Mobile (also known as War Thunder Edge) was released in May 2023 for Android, with an iOS version released in August 2023.

Wild Hearts	Wild Hearts is a 2023 action role-playing video game developed by Omega Force and published by Electronic Arts under its EA Originals label. The game tasks the player to hunt massive monsters in Azuma, a fantasy world inspired by feudal Japan. The game was released for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on February 17.

Marvel's Wolverine	Marvel's Wolverine is an upcoming video game developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. Based on the Marvel Comics character Wolverine, it is inspired by the long-running comic book mythology, while also deriving from various adaptations in other media. Marvel's Wolverine is a standalone entry in the Marvel's Spider-Man series, telling an original, self-contained story that shares continuity with Insomniac Games' other Marvel titles.

Wo Long: Fallen Dynasty	Wo Long: Fallen Dynasty (Japanese:   ) is a historical fantasy action role-playing video game developed by Team Ninja and published by Koei Tecmo. The game was released on March 3, 2023 on PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S.

World of Warships: Legends	The game's free-to-play structure is of the "freemium" type, and significant progress can be made without purchasing anything, but access to higher levels of play and additional warships becomes progressively more difficult without financial investment.

World War Z: Aftermath	World War Z is a third-person shooter video game developed and published by Saber Interactive. It was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on 16 April 2019, and a Nintendo Switch version was released on 2 November 2021. It was also released for Google Stadia on 5 April 2022. Ports for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S released on 24 January 2023. Loosely based on the 2006 novel of the same name and set in the same universe as the 2013 film adaptation, the game follows groups of four survivors of a zombie apocalypse in the cities of New York, Jerusalem, Moscow, Tokyo, Marseille, Rome, Kamchatka and Phoenix.

Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel	It was initially released January 19, 2022 for consoles and PC to positive reviews and rapidly climbed to the top of the Steam charts. On February 6, Konami announced the game had been downloaded over 10 million times. The game would later on be released in a few regions to iOS and Android January 26, 2022, with many more regional launches on February 2, 2022.

c1	Why do you love this game?<mct>Why do you like this game?<mct>
c2	Can you suggest me some games?<mct>Can you suggest me some video games?<mct>Can you suggest me some game?<mct>
c3	What is your opinion on?<mct>Is this game good?<mct>what do you think about?<mct>
c4	paltform for game?<mct>In what platform do you play games.<mct>
c5	What can you do?<mct>What features do you provide?<mct>
c6	Noob<mct>You are bad at games.<mct>
c7	What is your name?<mct>What do I call you?<mct>
c8	What is your age?<mct>How old are you?<mct>
c9	Do you sleep?<mct>Do you eat?<mct>
c10	Tell me anything you want?<mct>Anything you like?<mct>Tell me something interesting?<mct>
c11	Ok<mct>
c12	Great<mct>Nice<mct>Good job<mct>Nice Answer<mct>
c13	What can I use to play game?<mct>
c14	I wanted to talk about something else?<mct>I think you get it wrong.<mct>Not the response I was looking for.<mct>
c15	Let's play rock paper scissor?<mct>
c16	What is your heighst kill?<mct>KD?<mct>
c17	Bye<mct>Good bye<mct>Tada<mct>See you later.<mct>
c18	Thank you for your time<mct>Thank you<mct>
c19	Drop it<mct>
c20	How to imporve my reflex?<mct>How to imporve my aim?<mct>
c21	No<mct>Nope<mct>I dont want to play.<mct>
c22	console or pc<mct>Xbox or ps4<mct>Nitendo<mct>