clockThis article was published more than34 years ago LOS ANGELES -- Be ready to duck for cover the next time you pass a personal computer. Lurking just beneath the austere surface of most any PC could be she-devils, dragons, aerial dogfights, high-tech cops and malevolent leather-clad goddesses waiting to take you captive. Although Nintendo Entertainment System's rock 'em sock 'em video games may be the current rage, the software games that run on personal computers have hardly been laid to rest. Increasingly crisp computer-generated graphics, complicated plots and sophisticated themes are helping sales of software adventure games climb as fast as the F19 Stealth Fighter that zips across the screen of one popular title. In fact, many of today's games offer such advanced features -- including 3-D graphics and digital sound -- that titles of just one or two years ago seem dated by comparison. "These games are selling like crazy," said Jim Novy, a spokesman for Softsel Computer Products Inc., an Inglewood, Calif., software distributor that tracks the industry. More mature themes -- from singles bars and strip poker to complex studies of the political and economic unification of Japan -- have helped build a loyal following of players who are defying the game-playing fads found in arcades. "PC players are the type who will be here for the long run," said Johnny Wilson, associate editor of Computer Gaming World Magazine, an Anaheim, Calif., trade publication. Personal computer software game sales shot up 29 percent from 1987 to 1988, with sales of $263 million, according to the Software Publishers Association in Washington, D.C. While the trade association did not collect data before 1987, research director Ann Stephens said computer game sales have grown consistently since the early 1980s. The increase in sales is due in part to the rising popularity of IBM-style personal computers that run on the DOS operating system. From 1987 to 1988, sales for programs played on IBM and lower-priced clone machines grew 60 percent to $124 million, according to the Software Publishers Association. Most games also can be played on Apple Computer's Macintosh, the Apple II line of computers and the Commodore Amiga. The software firms that develop and distribute computer games is relatively tightknit. Many of them helped define the industry during its inception eight years ago and remain strong players today. The companies -- located primarily in and around Silicon Valley -- include Electronic Arts, Sierra On-Line, Broderbund Software and Mediagenic. Other market leaders include Accolade Software and Sphere Inc., known as Spectrum Holobyte. Ironically, the industry's hottest-selling game is from Microsoft Corp., which specializes in business-oriented software. "Flight Simulator" is the only game it sells. Computer "hackers" are drawn to the business because all it takes to design a game is a computer, some programming skills and an idea. Many games are used to start up small companies, while other software adventures are sold or licensed to established companies on a freelance basis. Unlike the Nintendo users who are aged 8-17, players for PC software games range in age from the early 20s to mid-40s. "The guys from all the offices around here always come in to check out the new games -- it's a break for them," said Gail Livingston, assistant manager at Software Etc. in Woodland Hills, Calif. Larry Bortz, a 34-year-old management consultant in Laguna Beach, Calif., said that computer games appealed to him because he always liked role-playing games and was an avid reader as a child. "Computer games provide a great escape for me," Bortz said. "You can get into a very deep plot, try to unravel it and feel like you're a part of the game because it is so interactive." PC software games are a kind of thinking person's version of the arcade-style video games that appeal to younger audiences. Most video games -- with such names as "Contra," "Streetfighter," "Bad Dude" and "Commando" -- require their adolescent players to jump, shoot, move and dodge a series of enemies and pitfalls. By contrast, the PC games -- which range in price from $30 to $80 -- require less manual dexterity and more intellectual muscle. The games come with manuals containing detailed information and background on plot, characters, settings and techniques. Players can spend nearly as much time reading the manual as they do playing the game. That appeals to the background of most players, many of who spent their childhoods acting out role-playing board games such as "Dungeons and Dragons." The attraction is that much of the game is created in one's mind with the help of various books. The heavy documentation and complex plots make the computer games last much longer than arcade-style games. A medieval fantasy called "Might and Magic" -- from New World Computing Inc. in Van Nuys, Calif. -- can take 150 hours to complete. Players hold their "place" in the game by storing the program onto a floppy disk. Beyond fantasy in faraway lands, many titles are based on real-life events. "Battlehawks 1942," from Lucasfilm, includes detailed information on a variety of Japanese Zeros and U.S. fighter planes. If a player cannot identify the silhouette of a particular plane, the game will send you back to the preceding stage. For in-depth geography, "Where in the World Is Carmen Sandiego" comes with its own world almanac and requires players to identify areas across the globe to track down a ring of international thieves. The games also feature more adult-oriented themes and parodies. "Leisure Suit Larry in the Land of the Lounge Lizards" follows the title character through hot tubs and singles bars in Las Vegas. The popular game from Sierra On-Line Inc. has spawned a sequel, with Larry looking for true love. A third version, due out late this year, turns the tables on Larry and has him pursued by a love-hungry character called Patty Polyester. Players looking for close encounters of a weird kind can take on the "Leather Goddesses of Phobof," who are out to capture unsuspecting space travelers who visit their distant planet. "If it's really well done and a little titillating, it will be a success," said Celeste Dolan, editor of the Computer Entertainer, a video game industry newsletter in Van Nuys. There also are racier games, such as "Strip Poker" from Artworks, and black-market programs that feature pornographic material. Most games, whether medieval fantasy or contemporary action, feature the same themes: a hero, one or more villains, some ultimate goal, romance, a climax and dramatic resolution of the game. With some advanced computer circuitry, many games are moving away from the flat-sounding beeps and boops of old computer sound toward digital-quality sound. Sierra On-line has signed up several musicians, including Supertramp drummer Bob Siebenberg, to write music for new games.