Like films, games featuring "unconstitutional" symbols can now be submitted for age-rating in Germany Germany has softened its stance against video games featuring Nazi symbols. Following a regulatory change, any game tackling the subject can now be assessed by the classification board.Previously, games like Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus had to be changed to meet a requirement that video games did not feature symbols and themes associated with "unconstitutional organisations" - which, in reality, mostly applied to stories about World War II and the rise and fall of the Nazi party.However, according to Game, the German games industry trade body, the national authorities will allow the Entertainment Software Self-Regulation Body (USK) to apply age ratings to video games that include such content - "effective immediately." From now on, video games "that depict symbols of unconstitutional organisations" will be assessed case-by-case by the USK, to decide whether they meet the "social adequacy clause" laid out in section 86 of the German Criminal Code - essentially, that the use of "those symbols serve an artistic or scientific purpose, or depict current or historical events." Other media, such as film and literature, have been free to include similar content for many years, but this decision marks a change in the standing of video games as a cultural form in Germany."This new decision is an important step for games in Germany," said Felix Falk, MD of game, in a statement. "We have long campaigned for games to finally be permitted to play an equal role in social discourse, without exception."Computer and video games have been recognised as a cultural medium for many years now, and this latest decision consistently cements that recognition in terms of the use of unconstitutional symbols as well."We in the games industry are concerned about the tendencies we see towards racism, antisemitism and discrimination. We are strongly committed to an open, inclusive society, to the values laid out in the German constitution, and to Germany's historical responsibility." GamesIndustry.biz spoke with Falk about the long-running campaign that culminated in this decision, and what that means for the German games industry. You can read it here.Matthew Handrahan Editor-in-Chief Matthew Handrahan joined GamesIndustry in 2011, bringing long-form feature-writing experience to the team as well as a deep understanding of the video game development business. He previously spent more than five years at award-winning magazine gamesTM.Advertisement Subscribe to GamesIndustry.biz newsletters for the latest industry news.GI Daily A roundup of the day's most popular articles.GI Market Report Analysis and data about the global games industry.Balatro runs into rating trouble News What led to Sony laying off 900 people? | This Week in Business News Brazilian games industry grew by 3.2% in 2023 News City State Entertainment is now Unchained Entertainment News Nintendo's Yuzu lawsuit puts emulation in the spotlight | Opinion News GamesIndustry.biz's South Africa Games Week starts this Monday News Radical Forge lays off "handful" of staff News Toys For Bob splitting from Activision Blizzard News The resource for people who make and sell games.GamesIndustry.biz is owned by Gamer Network Limited, a ReedPop company and subsidiary of Reed Exhibitions Limited. 2024 Gamer Network Limited, Gateway House, 28 The Quadrant, Richmond, Surrey, TW9 1DN, United Kingdom, registered under company number 03882481.All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.