BY MATT LEONE ON JAN 09, 2017 by Matt Leone on Jan 09, 2017 We are saving your place in the story as you read.Today, it sits above a Doutor coffee shop a few doors from a train station in a busy part of Hiyoshi, Yokohama.Visit the building and you wont see a plaque commemorating the history or remnants of a company whose characters now model Louis Vuitton clothes and sell millions of games. Yet on that spot in 1983, inside his fathers office space, founder Masafumi Miyamoto began a development studio called Square.Initially, it wasnt even a formally-designated company. It was a room where people came and went.Some describe the company in its early days as a family business. One of Squares first hires, Shinichiro Kajitani, joined simply because he was friends with Miyamoto and compares the young studio to a college club. Another, Hironobu Sakaguchi,designed games while working part time.We treated it like a hobby, not a career, says longtime Square composer Nobuo Uematsu. We just wanted to do what we liked. We werent worried about our salaries or living situations or thinking, Where is this company going? But people grow up and things change.In 2017, a salon called Mods Hair Paris fills the space where Square started more than 30 years earlier. | Photographer: Irwin Wong After a few early successes and stumbles, Square found a hit in the Final Fantasy series of role-playing games. Moved into progressively larger offices. Hired hundreds of people. Built a portfolio.Eventually Squares stock went public, and Sakaguchi-san and people on the management side had to focus hard on the financial goals they had to reach, the unit numbers that they had to hit, says Uematsu.That whole mentality started to change around the time of Final Fantasy 7. When Final Fantasy 7 shipped in 1997, it was Squares cash cow. The game pioneered 3D graphics techniques, helped Sonys PlayStation outperform its competitors, established Japanese RPGs in the West and went on to sell more than 11 million copies. To many fans, it defined Square as a company.Play Polygon + AU Game Lab's Final Fantasy 7-inspired trivia game As part of our look back at Final Fantasy 7 for its 20th anniversary, Polygon teamed up with American University's Game Lab and the JoLT Initiative, funded by the Knight Foundation,to develop a trivia game. Check it out to test your knowledge of the game, its development and its lore.Team members describe it as a perfect storm, when Square still acted like a small company but had the resources of a big one  and was willing to pour its money into one of the game industrys most ambitious projects right as the 3D graphics industry began to take off.I dont think Ive felt that kind of excitement ever since, says programmer Hiroshi Kawai. It wasnt just the fact that Square had the resources to get all the people and the hardware and the technology together, but even before seeing anything run, it was as if we knew we were going to be making history. With Final Fantasy 7 now approaching its 20th anniversary and a high-profile PlayStation 4 remake in development, we decided to look back.Over the past two years, Polygon tracked down more than 30 people who had a hand in the original game and asked them to tell the story of its creation. Below, in their words, youll find a story about a company in transition  and the money, politics and talent that pushed it over the edge.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan Nobuo Uematsu Music composer, Square Japan Yoshitaka Amano Image illustrator, freelance Kazushige Nojima Scenario writer, Square Japan Yusuke Naora Art director, Square Japan Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA Without Hironobu Sakaguchi, Square might not exist today.In the mid-80s, shortly after Square started out, the company was still finding its footing in the game industry. It had developed a string of modestly successful PC titles, but when Nintendos Famicom console came along in Japan (i.e. the Nintendo Entertainment System in the U.S.), Square decided to gamble heavily on the new machine. It showered the console with games, hoping to see strong returns. But, initially, they didnt come. The team ran low on money and showed signs it might fold.When Squares first Final Fantasy game hit the Famicom in 1987, that luck started to change. Thanks to an elaborate story and high-end production values, the role-playing series went on to become one of the biggest successes on Nintendos console  and then on its successor, the Super Famicom. In the late 80s, the series pulled Square out of financial trouble. By the 90s, it was the rocket almost everyone at the company grabbed onto.For Final Fantasy creator Sakaguchi, it marked a prosperous time. He moved up the ranks as the top creative figure at Square (intermittently known as Squaresoft), becoming an executive vice president and a game industry celebrity. In interviews looking back, he downplays his level of authority at the time, while others speak of him as someone who ran the show and made multimillion dollar decisions more or less on a whim.Motonori Sakakibara Movie director, Square In the late 90s, all the game companies had lots of money  especially Square, of course. So Square prioritized quality rather than obsessing over costs. That was how Sakaguchi-san operated. He always asked for a lot from the team and gave us tight schedules, but he backed up those requests with big teams and the best hardware. That was a very rare situation. He was always looking at a big vision, but at the same time, how to make it a reality.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square He was always looking at the future and always had a big-picture vision. He was never satisfied with what he was currently working on.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan I think calling him a god would be going too far, but it kind of felt like that. He was a superstar.Kyoko Higo Assistant marketing associate, Square U.S.I remember us calling him The King.  No, not to his face.Junichi Yanagihara Executive vice president, Square USA Well, he was the king, in a good way. I think that might have started as an email address where he didnt want to use his own name, so he just used king and then some number combination. And thats how we started saying, OK, hes the king. Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.Yeah, king, yeah. Actually, you know, at most of the management meetings at Squaresoft in Japan, without him, there were no decisions made. He told the management committee when a game was going to be completed and what kind of marketing he wanted to have. So yeah, he was the king. He was controlling the entire operation.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA King? Is that from Square U.S.?  Those punks. Yeah, I remember being called that at one point. The actual meaning is very different, though. There was a time when I really drank a lot of champagne, so I got the nickname Champagne King. Thats where it came from. It didnt have anything to do with my work. And I dont drink like that anymore.The creator of the Final Fantasy series, Hironobu Sakaguchi became Squares first industry celebrity. Many credit him with not only keeping Square from going under in the late 80s, but also with being ahead of the curve by moving Final Fantasy into 3D, online play and the film industry. After completing the film Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within, he left Square and founded production studio Mistwalker. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I think the way he works is very aggressive sometimes. But he understood the creative elements and also the management issues  And he worked very closely with key members of the development team, which no other management members of Squaresoft could do.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan Hes very politically adept. Some of it, perhaps, could be real manipulation; some of it could be something on a more motivational side. But he knows how to get people to do things for him.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan I wouldnt say he made arbitrary decisions, but he tended to make pretty big decisions pretty quickly and easily. I got the feeling he made decisions based on what inspired him at the time. Something would just kind of hit him and hed be like,OK, weve got to do this. Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA I guess my style can be a little haphazard. One morning I might say to the staff, Do it this way. And then when they show me what theyve done, which is what I asked for, Ill get mad: Why is it like this?! That kind of thing happens from time to time. The thing is, my thoughts are always in flux, swirling around and changing in my head, so I might shoot off 10 emails in a row on the same subject. Send an email, change my mind, send another email, think about it some more.Kyoko Higo Assistant marketing associate, Square U.S.Hes the father of Final Fantasy. He created this series. And so it was kind of easy for me and probably everyone else on our team to just kind of believe in his creation and be able to stand by it and really commit ourselves.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I think the golden days of Sakaguchi were when he was developing Final Fantasy 7. And most of the decisions he made paid off.By the early 90s, Square had an unqualified hit with the Final Fantasy series in Japan, a growing stable of games and enough breathing room to experiment. Sakaguchi took the opportunity to dabble in a series of ambitious projects, including a high-profile collaboration with the creator of role-playing series Dragon Quest and the artist behind manga series Dragon Ball. Their result was an RPG called Chrono Trigger.Meanwhile, after six Final Fantasy games on Nintendo hardware, Sakaguchi had begun to step away from working in the trenches on the series. Square team members Yoshinori Kitase and Tetsuya Nomura had begun to take leadership roles over day-to-day work on the Final Fantasy series, seeing through Sakaguchis high-level plans and story ideas. Kitase had long been a film buff who liked the parallels between film and game storytelling. Nomura came to the series as an artist, gradually taking on more creative responsibility.Final Fantasy 7 was an obvious next step, but with console hardware advancing quickly, Square wasnt sure how to approach the game. It could play things safe and stick to the 2D pixel art style of previous games; it could risk a new art style on aging hardware; it could dabble with early 3D graphics on new machines. Ideas spilled in every direction, and over the course of two years the company took three distinct attempts at getting the game off the ground.The first of those three was a direct 2D sequel to Final Fantasy 6 for Super Famicom.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan At the time, it wasnt clear yet whether Japanese RPGs were going to go 3D or not. Sakaguchi-san was especially fond of pixel art, and we debated a lot about whether we should remain in that 2D style.  After we finished Final Fantasy 6,we began working on Final Fantasy 7 , brainstorming and holding initial planning meetings.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA 1994? Ah, oh  that  wait, what? Kitase said that? Are you sure hes not just making it up? No, I dont know. Im sorry, I dont remember that. Maybe he meant that he had the idea in his head.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan I think we had about 60 people in total working on Final Fantasy 6. When we started preproduction for FF7 , it was probably a little smaller than that, maybe 20-30 people.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan We were working pretty slowly on it. Maybe for a few months?Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan About two to three months.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan At that early point we were all still going back and forth about what the story should be. Nothing had been clearly decided on yet.  the first plot treatment that Sakaguchi-san wrote, it took place in New York, there was an organization there that was trying to destroy the Mako Reactors and a character named Detective Joe was investigating them. There were other characters involved, too. One of the members of this organization trying to destroy the reactor was the prototype character for Cloud.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan I think I remember that you wrote some concept/planning documents too, right?Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan I did. I did.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan But at that time Chrono Triggers development was in dire straits, so all the team members switched over to help with Chrono Trigger  and thats as far as it went.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA Ah, yes, thats right. I remember now. It was when we consolidated everyone on Chrono Trigger. Thats right. Before we made Chrono Trigger, we had talked about making FF7, but then we moved everyone over to the Chrono Trigger team. I do recall now; I did write a scenario for FF7, a different story . I dont remember it being in New York though. You know, I think the New York idea might be from Parasite Eve. And Joe, thats actually the original name I had for the protagonist from Lost Odyssey. I dont know, maybe all this information is getting mixed up somewhere.With Final Fantasy 6, Yoshinori Kitase took over as the series director. And when Final Fantasy 7 came around, he fell into the same role. Team members describe Kitase as calmer and quieter than many high-profile game developers and say that his cinematic sensibilities played a big role in shaping FF7s CG cutscenes. In the years following FF7s release, Kitase stayed at Square, directing and producing many of the biggest Final Fantasy games. In 2017,hes working as the producer of Square Enixs Final Fantasy 7 Remake. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo In 2012, Square Enix released an art book in Japan called Final Fantasy 25th: Memorial Ultimata Vol.2, covering the history of Final Fantasy 7, 8 and 9. Inside, the book shows Squares early Final Fantasy 7 prototype for Super Famicom and other development experiments. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Setting aside work on the Super Famicom version of Final Fantasy 7, Square began to explore options for where to take the series in 3D. In 1994, that was a new concept for the company, and most of its staff had only been trained to make games in 2D. So rather than jump in head first, Square decided to put together a small experiment.Using high-end machines from 3D hardware powerhouse Silicon Graphics, Inc., Square put together a tech demo showing what the characters from Final Fantasy 6 could look like in a 3D battle scene. Team members say they always thought of the demo as a research project rather than as something theyd sell to players one day.Behind the scenes, the process of making a 3D tech demo started with Kazuyuki Hashimoto, an engineer who had experience in early 3D game development working with companies like Sega, Nintendo and Sony.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA Prior to Final Fantasy 7  we didnt have anyone on staff to do 3D graphics. Then I met , who is my best friend to this day, and he helped me find a very talented crew to head up the visuals. It was their first time working on a game, and it was our first time working with 3D graphics.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA At that time, I also had invites from other companies. But I wasnt interested. Sakaguchi-san was different. I think hes talented. He has something. I dont know what he has, but he has something.  He has the talent or ability to see what will happen in the future.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA We knew Nintendo 64 and PlayStation were going to be the next hardware generation, and that wed be developing our next game for one of them. It was similar to when we moved from the Famicom to the Super Famicom. Our first step wasnt to choose between the two systems, but to focus on learning the Silicon Graphics workstations we had purchased. They were very expensive machines, and we made a demo on them to show people, This is how Final Fantasy could look in 3D. Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA Square planned to build a game for the next-gen Nintendo machine, but the kit wasnt available and the technical . So I suggested we could go with a standard environment and we could see what we could do with it. Then later on we could optimize this idea to the small machine. Initially, we could do something with the most powerful environment so we could be more free  free to figure out what we could do in 3D.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA Back then, it was a big step from 2D to 3D. And it was difficult even in my head to picture what the battle scenes should look like.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA Square was very new to the 3D graphics industry, so Silicon Graphics didnt pay much attention to us. After we made this demo, we wanted to show it at the Siggraph conference in Los Angeles, and we couldnt bring over a machine from Japan . We needed to lease a rental from the SGI headquarters, and they didnt recognize us. But I had a friend at Silicon Graphics in the U.S., and I asked him to coordinate a loan, so we successfully loaned one machine for the demonstration.One of the key figures behind Final Fantasy 7s tech, Kazuyuki Hashimoto joined Square in 1995 with a background in 3D graphics from computer manufacturer Symbolics. At Square, he set up a new graphics pipeline and hired a team of engineers,initially working on the Final Fantasy 6: The Interactive CG Game tech demo. After finishing his work on that and FF7, he played a similar role in building a pipeline and team for Squares Honolulu studio working on the movie Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within, then left the company once the Honolulu studio closed. Following his time at Square, he joined Electronic Arts to help it get a handle on early PlayStation 3 hardware, then became president of a Hawaii-based startup called Avatar Reality. In 2012, he joined tech giant Nvidia. | Photographer: Irwin Wong After showing Final Fantasy 6: The Interactive CG Game at the Siggraph conference in Los Angeles, Square recorded footage of it and distributed that to players on this disc at the 1996 Tokyo Game Show. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan Because I was the only developer , I was tasked with manning the booth and explaining how the game worked at Siggraph. While the demo had only one battle, I remember it being fun to play.  I remember most people wanting a second or third go to figure out the right pattern of commands to win the game.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA There wasnt that big of a crowd. We made it so people could draw a symbol on the screen to cast a spell or call out a dragon. And they were interested in the visuals, but the mechanics seemed to confuse them.Michael Jones Engineering director, Silicon Graphics (1992-1999) Their user interface was a gestural interface. So youd make the Zorro Z and that meant something. And youd make a circle and that meant something. This was gestures as understood by storytelling game people, not gestures as understood by Microsoft working on operating system UI or something. It was much more aggressive and imaginative, and maybe a little less reasonable, but more fun. You know, if a computer company had made a pinball machine, they would have had a button that says push or launch or click or something, but if you had a game designer, it would have a big spring and a thing you pull back on.When Square released screenshots from Final Fantasy 6: The Interactive CG Game in 1995, some magazines jumped the gun and reported them as the first look at a game for Nintendo 64 (under its early name "Ultra 64"). Those reports turned out to be incorrect.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA People at the show didnt understand what they were looking at. A lot of them were interested in high-tech engineering or military-related things for business purposes, and we demonstrated this game just for fun. People said, Oh, interesting. Thats it. But I still remember Michael Jones at SGI came to visit because we used this technology, and he was so impressed that he said SGI really wanted to demonstrate the application in its headquarters in Mountain View, . And we gave him the executable to demonstrate the game at the SGI headquarters. He went on to became the head of Keyhole. Do you know what that is? Its Google Earth. Anyway, small world.Michael Jones Engineering director, Silicon Graphics (1992-1999) What I liked about it, just personally, was that even though they were advanced technically, they were actually faithful  unlike other video games  they were faithful to anime. You know, in Akira, the guy raises his fist up in the air and something happens, right? In video games of the day, a poor take on that. So this game was, Lets make a computer game that looks like the art form that inspired this game. Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA At the time when you were talking about computer graphics, people wanted to see something very realistic, something that you could throw into a live action movie and they couldnt tell the difference. But we used CG to represent anime characters.Because of that, I think a lot of people at the show werent very interested in it. But thats what we wanted to do.Michael Jones Engineering director, Silicon Graphics (1992-1999) We had a lot of customers who did crazy things. Customers that simulated nuclear reactors. Customers that taught astronauts to fly a space shuttle. All these kinds of lunatic fringe applications, they liked using our computers, and often they liked using my teams software. And in particular, machines like that, even if theyre kind of over the top as far as what a gamer would use, theyre great for game designers and developers because they can simulate interactively what would later on take maybe a year to code up to be interactive on a PC or something.  You know, you can practice basically by using a computer of super power.  And so thats what Square had done, pretty much.With Chrono Trigger behind it and work on the Final Fantasy Siggraph tech demo underway, Square began to take steps toward a second attempt at making Final Fantasy 7, following the abandoned Super Famicom project. Square had long been a Nintendo ally, making most of its games exclusively for Nintendos systems, so many at the company assumed they would follow whatever Nintendo did next and make games for the companys next console, Nintendo 64.Nintendo even had a partnership with Silicon Graphics for its Nintendo 64 hardware, making for what some thought would be a natural transition using the companys experience from the Siggraph demo.Square began to put together a plan for what a 3D Final Fantasy 7 could look like on Nintendo 64. The concept involved making the game for Nintendos 64DD peripheral, a disc drive add-on that ended up only shipping in Japan and never took off commercially. Square team members say they wanted to include lengthy cutscenes and large amounts of content in the game, which would have been difficult in the limited space of a Nintendo 64 cartridge, but that the plan never got far enough into development to have anything substantial to show publicly.Shortly after speaking on stage at Sonys PlayStation Experience event in 2015, Final Fantasy 7 director Yoshinori Kitase and artist/writer Tetsuya Nomura joked around in Polygons San Francisco office. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan It wasnt really officially in development for the Nintendo 64. It was more like we were experimenting with the hardware.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan actually started giving us emulation kits for the 64. They werent running on anything reasonably sized. Do you know what an SGI Onyx looks like? A little smaller than table.  I only had very simple demos running on it at the time, trying to port over some of the higher-resolution models that we used for the Siggraph demo to see how they would perform.  I was using a 3D model of a Leviathan guardian that definitely wasnt part of the FF6 Siggraph demo.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan We started making a demo to see what was possible, and only a handful of people worked on it: a few programmers, and four or five artists to work on the graphics. Those artists may have forgotten by now, but the first characters we had them work on were Cloud, Barret and Red XIII .Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan I remember working on them and revising their initial designs. Cloud and Barret were too short, so I made them taller. Yeah, the three of them were probably the first characters we made.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan A small group of us worked on those ideas in secret and gradually added more people.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan It all took place in one room too, I remember.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Yeah. It was a single room segregated from everyone else. Very few people knew about and worked on the project. It was all hush-hush. As for the main bulk of the work on that demo, maybe it took a month or two?Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Its hard to say what the exact time frame was. There wasnt a schedule, really.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Nomura, do you remember, when we were making that SGI demo for the Nintendo 64, that the first thing you created was the Behemoth CG model?Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan I did? In polygons?Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Whenever were doing research and development on a new Final Fantasy game, we usually select Behemoth as a test model of sorts. For the Nintendo 64 demo, it took 2,000 polygons to render him.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan I dont remember that at all.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan You dont? But you designed him! Anyway, we made a 2,000-count polygon version of Behemoth for the Nintendo 64, but when we rendered and animated it, the framerate was way too low. To properly display Behemoth with that technology,we needed 2,000 polygons, but it was a little too much for the hardware. That was part of the problem with choosing Nintendo.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan All this work was toward  I think they called it the Shoshinkai, Nintendos Space World . And here I am coding, kind of being able to do lead dev work for this Space World demo. Then I think it was near the end of the year.Sakaguchi-san just gathers everybody in the middle of this gigantic floor where we had a bunch of devs working in the middle of Meguro. And he just casually announces, You know, were not developing for Nintendo anymore.  So all my work at that point kind of went down the drain.In the Super Famicom era, Nintendo had a chokehold on many of the big Japanese third-party game studios. Companies like Capcom, Konami and Square played key roles in Nintendos success, and prioritized Nintendos hardware over Segas Mega Drive (Genesis in the U.S.).As Nintendo 64 and PlayStation arrived, that grip began to loosen. Despite Sony having an unproven track record in the game industry, its developer outreach and hardware convinced many third-party teams to hop on board.Square was one of the biggest studios to jump ship, announcing in early 1996 that it had decided to shift its entire lineup to Sonys hardware, with Final Fantasy 7 as the centerpiece.By the end of the generation, almost all major third-party studios had signed up with Sony, in part due to the economic advantages of manufacturing games on PlayStations CDs compared to Nintendo 64s cartridges.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I was hired by the president of the company, Mizuno-san, and he told me that, Squaresoft will always be with Nintendo.  As long as you work for us, its basically the same as working for Nintendo. And the week after I joined, they started saying, Oh, maybe we should switch to Sony. So I was kind of shocked.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan I remember walking down the hall when Sakaguchi-san stopped me and said, Hey, look at this! He was wearing this jumper jacket, and he turned around and showed me the PlayStation logo on the back. I stood there kind of dumbfounded.  I was pretty low on the totem pole at Square back then, so I couldnt really say anything in response  and in any event, even if he had talked to me about it, I was only in a position to nod and agree with him.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan I think a TV commercial, right?Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Ah, yeah. I think so. It was kind of unusual to use a TV commercial to announce that a game was under development  We dont do that kind of announcement nowadays.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan I also remember that we put an ad out in Shonen Jump , which had a circulation of six million people. We put that out at the same time we released the TV ad, and I think together they had a huge impact.Keith Boesky President, Eidos (1997-1999) Square was a bet-the-company kind of company. It was a big risk to put Final Fantasy 7 on the PlayStation.  Nobody had confidence in PlayStation. Nobody knew whether it would work, and most people thought that it wouldnt. And the early pictures that came out, when it looked like a toilet bowl, confirmed everybodys suspicions.Yoshitaka Amano Image illustrator, freelance That must have been a huge decision for to make. But he did it, and from there the series grew dramatically. Its amazing that he was able to do that and make it work. He did that all for the game, his series. That must have been a really tough time for him.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan I think it was a very difficult time for our president and for Sakaguchi-san.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA Of course, back then I wasnt the president of Square. There was a management level above me, and I talked with them to make the decision. But PlayStation games being on CDs was the biggest factor. If you wanted to make a 3D action game on a Nintendo 64 cartridge with that limited space, you could do it. But I wanted to create a 3D role-playing game. It was very clear in my head what I wanted to make, but that would have been difficult on Nintendos hardware.  The biggest problem was, of course, memory. Based on our calculations there was no way it could all fit on a ROM cartridge. So our main reason for choosing the PlayStation was really just because it was the only console which would allow us to use CD-ROM media.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Also CDs were cheaper than cartridges, so we were thinking we could provide more to players without raising the price. That was another big part of the appeal.In 1990, while working at Shikoku Bank, Tomoyuki Takechi started working with Square to help manage its finances. That led to him helping Square go public in 1994, and then joining the company in 1996  right when Square was deciding whether to make FF7 for Nintendo or Sony hardware. As president and and chief executive officer at Square, he led negotiations with Sony for Square to publish Final Fantasy 7 on PlayStation. In 2000, he became Squares chairman, and in 2001 he left to take responsibility for the company taking a financial loss. Following his time at Square, he has worked as president of development studio AQ Interactive and served on the boards of various companies in and related to the game industry. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA Around that time, Sony approached us, and they told us, We have the PlayStation coming out and we want to make 3D games. Would you guys be interested? And at the time, since we were really close to Nintendo, we said, Well, were not sure.Were pretty much just working with them. And I asked if it was OK to share that information with Nintendo. And Sony said, Thats totally fine. Go ahead and show it to them. We just want you to see what were doing, and if you like it, then by all means, come work with us on this. Its not that we were passing information back and forth between Nintendo and Sony, but at the time our programmers  started making prototypes that ran on the PlayStation and Nintendo 64 as sort of benchmark software to test each system.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan We were trying to work out whether to do it with the Nintendo machine or not.  There was a while there where we were going back and forth between the N64 and PlayStation, seeing what we could do with 3D graphics on each system.Motonori Sakakibara Movie director, Square I saw a couple of the tests, but it was obviously different. The quality was so different. So I thought theyd never take Nintendo because the result was very clear.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan I kind of had a suspicion that things werent going too well for the 64 at that point, because  one of my responsibilities  was to write performance applications that compared how well the 64 fared against the prototype .And wed be running parallel comparisons between the where youd have a bunch of 2D sprites bouncing off the screen and see how many polygons you could get within a 60th of a second. And even without any kind of texturing or any kind of lighting, it was less than 50% of what you would be able to get out of the . Of course, the drawback of the is it didnt really have a z-buffer, so youd have these overlapping polygons that youd have to work around so that you wouldnt get the shimmering . But on the other hand, there was no way youd be able to get anything close to what FF7 was doing on the 64 at that time.There was actually this one trip that organized for me, Narita-san, a few other lead devs who were working on the battle portion for the Final Fantasy 6 demo at that point.  I think Nintendo had been getting signals from Square saying, you know, Your hardware isnt up to snuff. Not only in terms of raw 3D performance, but in terms of storage. And they said, Were gonna fabricate this brand new chip, which was supposed to have a bunch of hardware improvements to get a little bit more performance. Which, my suspicion is they probably just repeated that verbatim from SGI, and I think there was, in general, a disconnect between SGI and Nintendo in terms of what they were expecting the hardware to do. SGI was probably talking more along theoretical lines of what the hardware would be able to do, and they were trying to make it general purpose so that it wasnt just a 3D rendering machine. But Nintendo had certain specific performance metrics that had to be met, but I dont think those were communicated well to SGI.The wires just  they werent in sync there. So they sent us down to Mountain View, and I took all that code I was writing for the Shoshinkai to run on the hardware there. And it didnt really change in terms of performance.Darren Smith Project manager/manager, Nintendo of America (1993-2000) In 1993, asked me to take on the role leading at least the North American side of project management for the development of the next-generation console , and I found that the partner was Silicon Graphics.So I moved down to California and was the person from Nintendo on-site there full time, just kind of coordinating the work between Japan and what was going on on-site there at SGI.  We definitely met with . We met with almost every single publisher out there, but really just to give them background on the technology, what it was capable of. Met with a couple of times. They came back with a demo of kind of what they found the technology was capable of doing, asked questions about how to optimize things.  I have a vague recollection of what they showed. From what I recall, the demo showed an increasing number of 2D bouncing balls with some textures mapped onto them. I dont think they showed anything that showed gameplay, or even anything with their own attached to it.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan We spent a few days, I remember, optimizing my code, to try to get a few more polygons out, but it didnt really make much of a difference. And upon returning to Tokyo, there was a meeting with me, Narita-san, Sakaguchi-san and the major stakeholder of Square, Miyamoto-san. And I had never seen . He just comes in. OK so, how was it? And I gave a few figures when asked, but Narita-san was the main person who was talking. And he was essentially saying,Were just not getting the performance. Were nowhere near what we did during the Siggraph demo. Miyamoto-san just silently acknowledged that, and I didnt hear anything from them until the point when Sakaguchi-san called together and said, Were not doing the 64 anymore. So yeah. I guess in a sense, I kind of provided the objective data to say that the 64 wasnt suitable for the next-gen Final Fantasy.Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA At that time, Square was really close to Nintendo  we were basically like a second party for them. So when their new system was in development, we gave them lots of advice, like, Youre going to need a CD-ROM drive for it, You dont have enough bandwidth to do what were trying to do, and, With what you have now, were not going to be able to make an RPG. We gave them lots of advice. But Yamauchi-san at Nintendo basically refused to listen to any of it. And thats when Sakaguchi-san and the management team at Square decided, OK, were going to go with Sony now. Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA We made our pitch as a team to the president and founder of Square, Miyamoto-san, because ultimately it was going to come down to whether it made business sense. Miyamoto-san encouraged us: If we, the software designers, were that confident that we could make a good game this way, then it would be strange to deny us this opportunity. He agreed that this was the way to go and told us to do as we saw fit.Junichi Yanagihara Executive vice president, Square USA has this sort of business sense, a spontaneous reaction to something new.  Some people may take their time to think something through, whether it is a good idea for the company or not. I got the impression that Miyamoto-san is someone who just says, Oh OK, I think this is a great idea. Well do it. Rather than doing due diligence and so forth.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Sony basically gave us the best deal they were giving to any publisher. And they did a lot of public relations work and marketing on their dime. They gave us a great deal to help convince us to come over.  I cant talk about the details,but one thing I can say is that Sony went very low on the per-unit royalties that we had to pay.When starting at Square in the early 90s, Yusuke Naora began work on Final Fantasy 6 without ever having played a role-playing game. A couple of years later he took on the role of Final Fantasy 7s art director, and he then stayed with Square for two decades working on a large variety of games. In 2016, he finished his work as one of a team of art directors on Final Fantasy 15, overseeing the games characters, then left the company. As of a Polygon interview with him in July 2016, he said he hadnt seen any more of Squares Final Fantasy 7 Remake than the public had. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Shuhei Yoshida Square account manager, Sony Computer Entertainment I was actually one of the publisher relations , an account manager of Square, so I know more than I can talk about.  Its a long story getting into that announcement.Yoshitaka Amano Image illustrator, freelance To be honest, . The thing I remember more was that Final Fantasy was no longer going to be a Famicom game; it was going to be a PlayStation game. That fact had more of an impact.Shuhei Yoshida Square account manager, Sony Computer Entertainment It was amazing. Everything changed after.  Final Fantasy 7 and Dragon Quest 7 was like a one-two .  At least for the Japanese market, that really made the PlayStation the most popular console for the generation.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA Politically it was a drastic change and a huge decision, but for me it was more of a natural decision because that was the hardware we needed to make the game.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.I thought it was the right decision, but yeah, there was a lot of with Nintendo after.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square It was pretty uncomfortable. There were about four to five years where we couldnt really talk with Nintendo. We didnt have a friendly relationship with them.Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA When we made the decision to go with Sony, for about 10 years we basically werent allowed into Nintendos offices. From a consumers point of view, it was good to have two companies competing with each other because prices wouldnt rise and it would be better for them. But from a business perspective, our main interest was making sure that Sony won and Nintendo lost, basically, because that would be better for us.George Harrison Senior vice president, marketing and communications, Nintendo of America (1992-2007) The period when PlayStation first arrived using CDs rather than cartridges was a tough period for Nintendo with publishers. Nintendo wanted to stay with cartridges to minimize counterfeiting but publishers wanted the extra capacity available on CDs. This was especially true for games like Final Fantasy with rich graphics.Darren Smith Project manager/manager, Nintendo of America (1993-2000) I knew it was important , and it certainly was a loss. But for me, it wasnt such a devastating loss. I knew it was very important for Japan. Im not so sure about the U.S. market. But we knew it was a big deal to have lost it on our system, and knowing that it would make Sony a bigger competitor, it just made the work that much more important.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan Ill say this. Im impressed with what Nintendo able to do with the 64 hardware. Mario, Zelda  their devs must be top notch to be able to do that. But thats essentially the extent of what you can do with the hardware. And you would get nowhere near anything like a Final Fantasy running on it.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA When we made our decision, the president of Square , our lead programmer and I went to a meeting with Yamauchi-san. There is an old cultural tradition where, in Kyoto, someone will welcome you with tea, but youre not supposed to really drink that tea. Its just polite to have it there. And Yamauchi-san welcomed us with a very expensive bento meal and beer, and gave us a very nice welcome and basically patted us on the back to say, I wish you the best. No bitter feelings or anything.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan I think is just trying to be politically correct with that one.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I dont think . They said, Oh, we dont need that. Thats what they said. Their philosophy has always been that Nintendo hardware is for their games, and if a publisher wants to publish, OK you can do it. But if you dont like it, We dont want you. Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan What I heard was Nintendo said, If youre leaving us, never come back. One of Squares first employees, Shinichiro Kajitani joined the team in 1986 on the same day as Nasir Gebelli, the programmer of the first three Final Fantasy games. Initially, Kajitani bounced between different roles, starting in sales, then dabbling in programming and production management. In the early 90s, he helped Square with recruiting and oversaw administrative purchases for the company, later joining Square USA and sitting on the Square EA board. After leaving Square in 2002, he joined game publisher Capcom, then went to development studio Game Republic, which he eventually helped run as chief operating officer. When Game Republic went out of business in 2011, he took a role with development team/graphics tech company Silicon Studio. | Photographer: Irwin Wong While outdated by modern standards, Final Fantasy 7's graphics helped lead the game industry in 1997, showing what was possible in 3D.After settling on its decision to leave Nintendo, Square moved quickly to make Final Fantasy 7 a reality on PlayStation, hiring a large 3D tech and art staff and purchasing hundreds of Silicon Graphics workstations. For many team members,that financial backing made all the difference, enabling them to outpace many of their competitors working in early 3D game development.Meanwhile, Square put its top resources into the games art, music and plot, experimenting with the best ways to tell a story with polygonal characters and CG cutscenes. And it spent money to open a new Western sales and marketing office in the U.S. to help promote the game in territories where the series hadnt yet taken off.From front to back, Square spared little expense in its attempts to make and promote the game.Over the years, Squares headquarters has bounced between a number of different offices. Shortly after starting work on Final Fantasy 7, the company moved into the Arco Tower in Meguro  a complex that could accommodate the additional staff Square needed to make the game. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.Final Fantasy 7 came very quickly; the development period was a little more than a year. That was very unusual at the time.  To shorten the development cycle, they invested hugely into the technology. The team expanded to close to 150 all of a sudden, from like 30-40 people.Keith Boesky President, Eidos (1997-1999) They had 150 people working on the game, which was a huge number. A normal game team was 20 at the time.[Note: Some remember these numbers differently. In an interview for this story, director Yoshinori Kitase estimates that Final Fantasy 6s development team had 60 people on it. And a 1997 issue of Japanese magazine Weekly Famitsu reports that Square used 200 people to develop FF7. Final Fantasy 6s credits list 65 names, with 16 of those appearing in the Special Thanks section. Final Fantasy 7s credits list more than 350 names, with over 200 of those from outsourcing partners and overseas offices.] Junichi Yanagihara Executive vice president, Square USA Myself, Hashimoto-san and Kajitani-san were sort of three pals. We basically had to go around the world recruiting people.Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA I was involved in recruiting, yeah.  It wasnt really that difficult, because starting around 92 or 93 we decided that because of the way the industry was going, we should start focusing more on 3D graphics. And at the time, there were magazines called Nikkei CG and Pixel, and we found about 100 or so names through those. So we went around talking to them. For one of those trips we actually went to Skywalker Ranch. I didnt meet George Lucas myself, but I saw him off in the distance. At the time, there were only about 10 Japanese people working there in the film studio, but I went and talked to all of them.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan Do you know a company called Recruit in Japan? Theyre pretty big. They publish a lot of magazines, but one of the most important magazines they publish is sort of like a help wanted magazine. but more extravagant. They do in-depth interviews with people in the company to sort of . Companies would sort of vie to get themselves listed in this magazine. out of the blue, and I think the reason was that I was one of the few Japanese speakers at MIT.Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA Square was always of the mind that it would be best to commit 100 percent to just one thing, so where, for example, Sega would buy a $10,000 machine, Square would buy a $100,000 machine. Then when wed go out to recruit designers and programmers,they would say, Well, wed rather work with the $100,000 machine. Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan It was a very developer-friendly environment.  We were only able to do what we were doing because the company was financially healthy.Yoshitaka Amano Image illustrator, freelance I felt the budget getting bigger and the scale getting bigger. It didnt feel like a domestic thing anymore; it felt like something that was going worldwide and becoming more global and more important. But I didnt really get paid more.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan There was a great push to get our dev environment up to speed so that we could effectively develop at full speed. All the game designers had an SGI on their desk. They had a PC on their desk. spent a lot of money on infrastructure.And I know Hashimoto-san probably had a large purse to work with, just to try to get the best 3D artists.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA At that time, every workstation cost $70,000 U.S. At first, when we were working on the Siggraph demo, we ordered four machines. We were a small customer. After we moved on to Final Fantasy 7, we asked them for a quote for 200 machines.They were surprised. What?! Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square We used about $40 million for the games development. We probably spent $10 million of that just on the computer graphics.Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA At that time, I was the head of system administration, so I arranged and bought all of the equipment. I signed checks to Silicon Graphics totaling about $38 million. I bought more than 200 Indigo2 desktop machines,Onyx and Challenge rendering servers and other machines.  During Final Fantasy 7s development, we purchased 200 to 250 Indigo2s at $70,000 apiece. An Onyx server cost about $1,000,000. A Challenge server cost about $500,000. So we paid a total of around $17,000,000 on SGI equipment.  And also for software, we paid Alias approximately 2,000,000 yen multiplied by 250 for a total of around $4 million. So excluding labor costs, we spent around $21,000,000 on graphics hardware and software. About 90 percent of that was for Final Fantasy 7, but we may have used it on other projects as well.  One thing that surprises me even now is, at the time, the PlayStation development kits were about $20,000 each, and they were just sitting there in cardboard boxes in the hallway where pretty much anybody could enter off the street and grab them. And there were SGI machines sitting there too, and literally anyone could have just walked in from outside and taken one. There was pretty much no security.For Final Fantasy 7 on PlayStation, Square poured its resources in  hiring programmers through magazines (though not directly via the sample above, which came years later) and developing its approach to art, music and other aspects behind the scenes. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo In early 1996, the FF7 team had much of the equipment and workforce it needed, and just under a year to finish the game. With a short development cycle, Square ensured its visuals would be at the cutting edge of early 3D games. It also meant the staff had to move quickly.From setting up a tools pipeline to learning the hardware to the ground level programming, the team learned as it went.Hiroki Chiba Event planner, Square Japan Because it was the first 3D game in the series, everything was new and everything was a challenge.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan It was kind of a jolting experience to go from 2D to 3D. When I was back in school, I didnt really put much effort into technical studies and that sort of thing, and I just kind of thought about making games one way  And then once I made the jump to 3D graphics, I realized I didnt know nearly as much math as I should. And I was really upset at myself for not studying more math in school.  I think a lot of programmers at the time were probably in the same position.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA Most of the difficulty was the in-game stuff and the tiny memory space. The Siggraph tech demo used a very high-end SGI super workstation. It had 256 megabytes of memory and also 256 megabytes of texture memory. In 96, it was a big machine.Do you know how much memory was available on the PlayStation 1? Two megabytes. Only 2 megabytes available for the system memory and also 500K for the texture memory. It was so tiny. And the problem was the motion data. The animation data was just so huge, and we needed to think about how to shrink it.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan We had to be efficient in figuring out what character 3D animation data you wanted in a particular level, so that you wouldnt be spending too much time loading stuff. I remember being given this assignment where the metric that I had to meet was that all the Final Fantasy 7 characters for the field maps  the main characters, the party characters  had to be able to be animating at 60 frames per second lined up side by side on a screen.  I did manage to achieve that with some of the optimizations that Sony reluctantly made available to us. Their original dev tools were designed in a way where  they were hoping to make it so they could have devs work with the support of a API so that wouldnt break as they made improvements under the hood. But it got to a point where we really needed to get more of the hardware out. And one of our devs actually disassembled their code and figured out what the hardware code instructions were to do certain calculations optimally.  At first, Sony wasnt too keen on us accessing the hardware directly because it would require any future hardware changes to maintain the functionality we were dependent on. Fortunately, they eventually relented and, in turn, cleaned up our internal API so that it could be made available to all PlayStation developers.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA I remember seeing the lead programmer, Narita-san, struggling to make the characters walk on a 3D surface. When he solved the problem, everybody was so happy with it.  Never forget. Unforgettable event.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan The biggest moment that I remember was  and it may have been a first for Final Fantasy 7  where they were syncing real-time 3D with FMVs. Do you remember the opening scene where you were zooming into the train, and then you had Cloud jumping off the train, and you had, I think, two guards standing on the train platform, who would be coming into view, being rendered in real time? I remember everything was supposed to work in theory, with all the math that we had done at that point. But as you may have heard, PlayStation  in order to get its performance  didnt have the precision of your high-end SGI machines. So you had to sort of fudge certain numerical values to approximate what it was doing on the SGI.And that moment in the initial scene where the camera just zoomed in  it wasnt a full-blown FMV at that point; it was a really simply rendered 3D background  but just to see the 3D characters and the FMV in sync was really awesome at that point.Frank Hom Associate producer, Eidos (1995-2001) was just so beautiful. It was just so ahead of its time.  There just was nothing like that kind of melding of 2D and 3D art, and having the art transition from in game to CGI back into in game. To me, that was just awesome. It didnt take you out of the experience when you were playing the game. I think that was the beauty of Final Fantasy 7.  Youre always immersed.Motonori Sakakibara Movie director, Square Every day, wed see some progression and be amazed by the result. The project lasted just one year, but the energy level was very high. Id never seen that kind of team before.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan One of the biggest factors was that everyone was highly motivated. There were a lot of people who were working on the game 24 hours a day, and no one got burned out because we were all motivated and having a good time. So while Square put a lot of money into technology and manpower, motivation was definitely also a big factor. We were young and could work long periods of time straight through.  I spent most of my waking hours thinking about the game. I would get up in the morning and immediately start thinking about the game, go straight to work, work on the game until late at night with everyone else at Square, and then at night Id get on the train and go home thinking about the game, get in the bathtub thinking about the game, go to sleep, and do the same thing the next day. I didnt feel like I had to work to get things done. I wanted to do it.For two months in mid-2015, The National Art Center in Tokyo put on a Manga, Anime, Games from Japan exhibit featuring Clouds sword from Final Fantasy 7 and wireframe art of the tech behind the game. | Photographer: Irwin Wong While Square sorted its tech under the hood, it also needed to decide what art style Final Fantasy 7, as the companys first big 3D project, should have.The games overall appearance fell to art director Yusuke Naora. But it was character designer Tetsuya Nomura who became a breakout star amongst fans thanks to his characters like Cloud, whose spiky hair translated well to the screen in the games 3D engine. Across the board, FF7s characters moved away from the super-deformed look established in the 2D Final Fantasy games, which many say made them more palatable for Western fans at the time.Over the course of the games development, Nomura not only drew the cast but took some ownership of the creative side of the project as a whole, contributing to the games story and overall design alongside Sakaguchi and Kitase.In the years following FF7s release, Nomura would go on to spearhead the Kingdom Hearts franchise and become one of Squares highest profile employees.Nobuo Uematsu Music composer, Square Japan Nomura-san had been working on the series for a long time , but I feel like his art really came to life in the PlayStation era because you could show more on the screen. I think it worked out really well for him that the Final Fantasy series moved onto PlayStation.Motonori Sakakibara Movie director, Square Nomura-san was a great 2D artist, but his characters worked especially well in 3D. He spent a ton of time making the game characters look like his original designs, which was one of the big secrets behind the creation of the Final Fantasy 7 characters.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Id been involved with the series since Final Fantasy 5. And on Final Fantasy 5 and 6, I would always talk about plans and mention ideas to Kitase-san. But on 7, that was when I took a bit more of a leadership role and started coming up with proposals and speaking more clearly about what I wanted to do in the game.Motonori Sakakibara Movie director, Square Nomura-san is crazy. His standards were extremely high. He was always concerned about the characters eyes, for example  the shapes and sizes of the eyes, the thicknesses of the eyelids. Hed spend a ton of time just on a little curve of an eye. I dont think he ever gave me a simple approval.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Im a little bit fickle, so Im not the type of person to work on one thing and focus simply on that. Say, if Im drawing  I wouldnt work on one single piece at a time. It would be more like four or five and Id rotate between them. Or if Im working on a design document for a game and I feel I need a change of pace, Ill start drawing something instead. Or if I need to draw, I might work on different projects to change my mood and get that sort of refresh. So thats how I prioritize those kinds of things. But if there is a deadline, of course Ill prioritize that first.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan I might sound a little condescending here, but he seemed like a very dedicated artist back during Final Fantasy 7. I dont know what about 7 itself, or perhaps it was actually Final Fantasy 8 that changed the tide,but he seemed to become a very different person at that point, where the authority that he gained from Final Fantasy 7 and Final Fantasy 8 got to a point where he became sort of untouchable in a similar vein as Sakaguchi-san.You couldnt really fight against him.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Between when I started at Square and now, my position within the company has changed a lot. So when I started, I was kind of at the bottom rung of the corporate chain, and now Im at a level where Im making executive decisions. So on that level, its changed, but my stance has always been to look at things from the players perspective. Some people might disagree with me, but I see my role as looking after the players perspective. And in that respect, I feel like I havent changed much.One of Squares longest-running character designers, Tetsuya Nomura started with the Final Fantasy series as a tester on FF4 and has been contributing to the series in various forms ever since. Hes also branched out into many of Squares other games, most notably overseeing the creation and development of the action role-playing Kingdom Hearts franchise. In 2014, after years working as the director of Final Fantasy 15, Nomura stepped out of that role without Square giving a clear public reason why. Since that announcement, hes been continuing to direct Kingdom Hearts 3, directing the Final Fantasy 7 Remake and working on various other art and design projects. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Squares Tetsuya Nomura contributed to many aspects of Final Fantasy 7s development, but fans know him best as the games character designer. He was responsible for the games cast, including main character Cloud (left) and villain Sephiroth (right).| Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Starting with the original Final Fantasy games in the 80s, one of the franchises most distinctive elements has been its promotional and concept artwork from freelance illustrator Yoshitaka Amano, whose pieces for games and otherwise have made him a celebrity in art circles.Often appearing on box art and in marketing materials for Final Fantasy games, Amanos work takes the characters from each game and presents them with a fantastical style players dont typically see in the game industry.I feel like what I add to the franchise is my approach differs from a game developers approach, he says. And I think that gives the art more leeway  it isnt limited to something that would fit into a game. While for early Final Fantasy games, Amano based his work on pixel art designs and thus had to visualize what those characters should look like in his paintings, on Final Fantasy 7 he painted a series of pieces inspired by concept art from Square character designer Tetsuya Nomura. Square couriered over Nomuras samples, and Amano interpreted them as he saw fit.Amano was way above our pay grade, says Nomura, who says he likely only met with him once during FF7s development. He wasnt someone we could just talk to casually. Because Amano used Nomuras work as a jumping off point, he didnt have to read between the lines as much to define what the characters should look like before painting them in his style. He says it was a straightforward process and he didnt have any particular advice for Nomura.There wasnt really much that I passed along to Nomura-san, Amano says, but I was relieved because I didnt have to do as much. Talk to Amano about his work, and he focuses less on the details of each game and more on how the characters make him feel. He cant always describe which characters do what at which point in each game; instead, he looks at the game industry from a high-concept perspective, noting that he sees video games as a great way to deliver new technology to the masses.Amanos art has made him an integral part of the franchise  even through to today, as he still contributes occasional work for Squares new Final Fantasy projects, such as a mural for Final Fantasy 15 (which Square then turned into a trailer).Now in his 60s, Amano says hes less inclined to take on client jobs that come with rigid guidelines, as he doesnt like the limitations that come with that sort of work. But he regularly shows his work at galleries and says he has no intentions of retiring any time soon.As an artist, I still feel like a beginner, he says. So theres a lot left to do. Im going to continue doing this for a long, long time. Perhaps the most famous Final Fantasy team member to never work at Square, Yoshitaka Amano started his career in the 60s as an illustrator working on anime like Speed Racer, but went freelance in the 80s and has worked for himself ever since. Hes been involved with the Final Fantasy series from the beginning, handling much of the early promotional artwork, though he prefers to keep a professional distance from whats happening inside Square. Today, Amano is one of the most popular artists in Japan, at times selling new mainstream work for six figures while still dabbling in occasional Final Fantasy art and other game industry jobs. | Photographer: Irwin Wong When Polygon visited longtime Final Fantasy illustrator Yoshitaka Amano for this story, he dug through his archives and found a set of paintings he did for Final Fantasy 7 in the mid-'90s. Then months later at a gallery exhibit across town, Amano displayed a selection of his art from the past 30 years, with pieces representing each main Final Fantasy release. We collected photos from both for this gallery. Photographer: Irwin Wong From Final Fantasys earliest days, Nobuo Uematsu made a name for himself as the series composer. On Famicom and Super Famicom, that meant extracting distinctive melodies from primitive audio hardware. On PlayStation, all of a sudden, he faced fewer limitations. He could create larger files and use more sounds simultaneously.That was the kind of detailed work I did with the programmers, although nobody really seemed to notice that effort, Uematsu says.For FF7, he says he tried to approach the music like a film soundtrack, worrying less about making a single melody to define the game and more about composing songs that wouldnt overwhelm the games 3D visuals. I tried to make tracks where the melody wouldnt stick out as much, he says.As Uematsu tells it, though, composing songs for Final Fantasy 7 posed a unique challenge due to the nature of CDs.Nobuo Uematsu Music composer, Square Japan While I was working on Final Fantasy 5, there were already rumors about the next-generation hardware, but I didnt know what to expect. Id heard rumors that games were going to be on CD-ROMs, so the first thing that came to my mind was, Oh great, now I can hire singers and create tracks with vocals on them. But I tried it out and even though I had enough space to include vocals, they made it so the game took longer to load between scenes.And I didnt want to do that just for the music, with the game starting and stopping as you play. I didnt think that made sense. So I gave up on that idea and made it work so all the sound would load when you first booted up the game. I was particularly invested in that idea.Because we did that, though, the sound quality wasnt as high as it could have been. And when the game shipped, I compared the sound quality of Final Fantasy 7 with another game released around that same time and the quality for the other title was pretty high. The game was stopping to load sound data here and there, which I didnt want to do. But after comparing our sound quality with theirs, I thought, OK, maybe I should loosen up a little bit and go for higher quality sound even if it hurts the gameplay flow a little bit. For Final Fantasy 8, we did that.  I dont remember the specific title I was jealous of, but it was from the Suikoden series  whichever title that was out at that time. It loads a lot, and I was thinking that it stopped the game too often, but the quality was really high.That was kind of the trigger to make me think in a different way.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan With CDs, the load times were a pain to deal with  not just for the music, but for all aspects of the game. We had to figure out what we could do to cut down on the load times as much as possible. We actually put a lot of effort into making sure the game was constantly preloading whatever players would see next.  We had to kind of cut corners for stuff like that everywhere.One of Squares first employees, Nobuo Uematsu made a name for himself as the composer of the early Final Fantasy games and stuck with the franchise for more than 20 years, contributing less as time went on. Final Fantasy 7 marked his first game on PlayStation, which gave him more space to work with, though he hesitated to use it all since he didnt want to add to the games load times. In 2004, Uematsu left Square to go freelance and has rejoined Final Fantasy creator Hironobu Sakaguchi on many of Mistwalkers key titles, in addition to working on independent albums and contributing to games like Japanese mobile RPG megahit Granblue Fantasy. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Former Square composer Nobuo Uematsu still plays Final Fantasy songs live at concerts in 2017, including fan favorite One-Winged Angel. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: Ichigos Sheet Music [Note: While working on Final Fantasy 7, Uematsu composed a song called One-Winged Angel using an experimental approach. It went on to become one of his most popular songs, but he says his goal when he was writing it was simply to get out of his comfort zone.] Nobuo Uematsu Music composer, Square Japan With Final Fantasy 6, I had put a lot of effort into creating the boss tracks. And since I put a lot of effort in, they turned out really well and gained a nice reputation. After that, I was thinking, OK, the normal approach wont exceed what I did for Final Fantasy 6. So a normal tune or classic track wouldnt accomplish much. And I had pulled out The Rite of Spring by the Russian composer Igor Stravinsky, and normally just listening to a track doesnt help me. But I just sat there and kept listening to that track and started thinking I wanted to make a wild, classic tune.So after that, I started  I would go into the office and just record a couple phrases that came into my mind. Like in the morning, I would come into the office and record the phrase that pops into my mind. And I just kept doing that for two weeks. And after two weeks, I had a lot of random phrases piled up. Then I took those as puzzle pieces and tried to line them up in an interesting order to make sense as a track. That was a totally new approach for me.  This was the only time I ever used that approach. It was almost like a gamble  it could have turned out great, or it could have turned out horribly.  That was a really fun time for me since the number of sounds I could use expanded a lot.  That might have been a shift in my career, since I wasnt limited as much anymore.Alexander O. Smith Localization specialist, Square U.S. and Japan (1998-2002) I feel like, more than the changes  and there were certainly changes  I like the consistency of it. I mean, Uematsu-sans songs sound like Uematsu-san songs, and thats comforting. People want that, especially if its Final Fantasy. Its a real note for the series.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan I was a really big fan of Uematsu-sans music. While I was working on the game, Uematsu-san was working on the composition, and hed send over new tracks as they came along. I actually created a little music player program on my machine just to listen to the tracks he sent over.Yoshitaka Amano Image illustrator, freelance I have high respect for as a musician. Hes a great composer. When you hear his melodies, you can tell right away that he did them and that they sound like Final Fantasy. Hes even in general music textbooks that you use at school.I think its great that a game composer was able to become a mainstream success like that.In early 1997, Square wrapped its work on the Japanese version of Final Fantasy 7. The team had seen through Sakaguchis ideas, producing a game with best-in-class visuals and mountains of content, helping promote PlayStation as a console.Yet the team had a secret. A spoiler. Toward the end of the games first disc, villain Sephiroth stabs one of the main characters, Aerith Gainsborough, through the back, killing her.Looking back now, many point out that the scene appears almost comically primitive, with blocky characters and limited animation. But at the time, it stood out as one of the most emotionally charged moments the game industry had produced  a moment that stuck with fans for years. It even made some players cry.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Did you know people have been coming up to me for years now and saying, You killed Aerith!? Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Are you trying to blame me for that?Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan OK, so maybe I did kill Aerith. But if I hadnt stopped you, in the second half of the game, you were planning to kill everyone off but the final three characters the player chooses!Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan No way! I wrote that? Where?Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan In the scene where they parachute into Midgar. You wanted everyone to die there!Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Really? Wait, Im starting to remember  Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Yeah, remember? You and Nojima-san were all excited about this. I was the one who said No way! and stopped you guys. You wanted to kill everyone except the final three characters the player chose for the endgame.Kazushige Nojima Scenario writer, Square Japan Obviously, Im a scenario writer so I wrote the script where Aerith dies. But for that decision, we talked it through with the main staff. We talked a lot about how the story would turn out.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan The theme of Final Fantasy 7 was life, and we sacrificed Aerith in order to give weight and depth to that theme. Her death is a tragedy, but if we suddenly just killed off everyone else after that, it would dilute the meaning of her death.Kazushige Nojima Scenario writer, Square Japan Back then it was so much easier to change the scenario on the fly. So every day, wed go back and forth about how to approach things.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Long after we made the decision to kill Aerith and the development had progressed considerably, I used to go visit Uematsu-san in his room. Just to hang out and talk about random things. One day, toward the end of development, I visited him to ask him, Do you think we did the right thing in killing Aerith? Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Really?Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan He said, sure, he thought so.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Hah, so casual!Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan I was relieved to hear it.Nobuo Uematsu Music composer, Square Japan When I was playing the game, I was really surprised when she died so early on. Everybody probably thought she was going to be one of the main popular characters, but then she just died right away. Maybe thats the reason why everyone remembers it so much.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan When a character in a video game dies, no one thinks its that sad. Theyre just characters in a game, after all  you can just reset the game and try again, or you can always revive them somehow. I felt that their lives just didnt have much weight. With life as our theme for FF7, I thought we should try depicting a character who really dies for good, who cant come back. For that death to resonate, it needed to be an important character. So we thought killing off the heroine would allow players to think more deeply about that theme.Nobuo Uematsu Music composer, Square Japan When I was composing , I didnt really think about her death, but I felt like she wasnt a very happy character. She was really innocent and pure but had a tragic kind of life.  I did realize it was probably going to be an important track.  If I knew that scene would make people cry, I might have made something totally different  something designed to make you cry. But I went with a kind of sad but beautiful tune, and since its not the kind of track you typically hear when something tragic happens, maybe that worked out well. When something is missing, people tend to use their imaginations. So since the track doesnt express 100 percent of the feeling in that moment, people might have filled in the gaps in their heads. Maybe.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan It was more wanting people to understand what it means to hurt and to feel that sense of loss.In the late 90s and early 2000s, Kazushige Nojima wrote the stories for many of Squares biggest games, Final Fantasy 7 among them. Yet growing up, he says he was a bigger fan of Enixs Dragon Quest than he was of Final Fantasy, considering Dragon Quest 2 and 3 to be the quintessential Japanese RPGs. That doesnt mean he would want to try his hand at the Dragon Quest series, though. I couldnt do it, he says. I just regard it so highly. I met Yuji Horii,who created Dragon Quest, when Square and Enix merged and I was just so tense. I couldnt say anything. It was a profound experience. Nojima left Square in 2003 to go freelance, though he still regularly works with Square Enix. In 2017, hes writing the story for the Final Fantasy 7 Remake. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Almost 20 years after Final Fantasy 7s release, Square Enix still requests that media outlets not use certain imagery of Aeriths death scene in articles for fear of spoiling the surprise. We werent planning to anyway, but if you want to see it you can here.| Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Given Final Fantasys track record, Square executives in Japan didnt have much concern over whether FF7 would sell well locally. And it did, racking up more than two million units in its first week there, eventually going on to sell more than four million.North America and Europe were another story. At the time, Japanese-developed role-playing games had a cult following in the West, and the Final Fantasy series had struggled to expand beyond that small-but-loyal audience.So as Final Fantasy 7s Western release approached, Square closed its existing sales and marketing office in Washington and hired two game industry newcomers to start a new office in Costa Mesa, Calif., giving the company and the series a fresh start in the West.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.At the time, more than 95 percent of the revenue for Squaresoft came from the Japanese market. The remainder five percent came from, mostly from the U.S, but maybe one or two percent from the European operation. But the majority of the revenue was from the Japanese market. So they wanted to increase their business outside of Japan. Thats how I was hired.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.I knew Shinji Hashimoto at Square from my time at an ad agency in Tokyo, and one day I got a call from him and he said, Are you interested in moving companies? So I asked him about it. He said, We have a big project coming up, Final Fantasy 7, and we want it to sell worldwide. Then he said he was looking for someone to run marketing for the U.S. market. And I said, What? U.S. market? Because I couldnt speak English well.But he said, It doesnt matter. If youre interested in it, please contact me. Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.My first assignment at Squaresoft was relocating the Squaresoft operation in Redmond, Washington down to California.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.This was sort of the right timing, because Square had shifted from Nintendo to Sony. Square previously had an office in Seattle because Nintendo was nearby. But Sakaguchi-san decided to close the Seattle office, and everyone working there left.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.Sakaguchi-san was opening development studio in Marina del Rey , so we opened the publishing office in Costa Mesa.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.Normally San Francisco would have made sense because Sony would have been nearby. But at that time we were in Los Angeles, and we had a small office inside Sonys U.S. headquarters because Final Fantasy 7 received the first-party treatment. We controlled marketing but asked Sony to do the budget and publishing and those kinds of things.In the early 90s, Yoshihiro Maruyama worked for Japanese management guru Ken Ohmae, who had a variety of contacts in the game industry. And at one point in 1994, Ohmae took Maruyama to meet with former Nintendo president Hiroshi Yamauchi, who in turn introduced both of them to Squares top executives. A year later, Square hired Maruyama to run the companys U.S. headquarters. As the head of the Costa Mesa, Calif. office, he oversaw FF7s Western release and signed deals to release the game on PC in the U.S., Europe and Korea. In 2003, Maruyama took over Microsofts Xbox division in Japan. In recent years, hes worked as an agent, setting up deals such as connecting high-profile Japanese writer/director Yasumi Matsuno with independent studio Playdek for the role-playing game Unsung Story. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Final Fantasy 6 didnt sell very well outside of Japan, and so when we were bringing Final Fantasy 7 overseas, I was thinking I needed to change something  we needed to do something different. So I was thinking, What would make a difference for the game outside of Japan?  The Sony brand was well known around the world, so I was thinking it would be great if it came out under that Sony brand.  Japanese RPGs had a small market outside of Japan. People didnt think of them as high-profile games. And I thought having it come out under the Sony brand would help that perception.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I think it was the third year of the PlayStation. They were still struggling to compete with Sega and Nintendo in the U.S. And compared to Sega and Nintendo, Sonys first-party portfolio was rather weak. So once we decided to , Sony really strongly asked for the publishing rights to Square titles in America as well as in Europe.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.Yoshi and I didnt have a lot of experience. Sony aggressively pitched to Square to bring Final Fantasy over, and at that time Sakaguchi-san and everybody thought we should.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square They were really eager to publish it under their brand. And because they were so eager, they also signed a deal with very good conditions where Square earned almost as much money as if we had published it ourselves.Kyoko Higo Assistant marketing associate, Square U.S.For the States, it was a six-title deal. So the first six titles that came out with the Squaresoft label, or logo, they were all published by SCEA and also SCEE.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Sony also agreed to co-promote and market the game around the world. They put in a lot of money, as did Square, and it turned out to be a huge marketing campaign.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.Sonys philosophy was they didnt want to market the hardware; all the marketing budget should be for the titles. So once we gave the publishing rights to Final Fantasy and others to Sony, Sony spent lots of money promoting the Final Fantasy franchise in America. I think it was a good thing, because they spent so much on promotion  on TV and print and all those kinds of stuff.  I think maybe tens of millions.  That was a huge amount at the time.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square Just in the North American market, we probably spent more than $20 million on marketing.  Including Europe, probably $30 million.  Including Japan, probably $40 million.As the head of Western marketing for Final Fantasy 7, Jun Iwasaki worked closely with Sony and ad agencies to promote the game to an audience unfamiliar with role-playing games. Following FF7s release, he took over as president of Squares U.S. office, then left in 2004 over a disagreement with then-president and CEO of Square Enix, Yoichi Wada. Iwasaki says his main regret upon leaving was that he wasnt able to see through a marketing campaign for Dragon Quest 7 in the West; he had developed a plan to pit Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest fans against each other, since the games took different approaches to the role-playing genre and were under the same roof after Square merged with Enix. After leaving Square, Iwasaki started XSEED, a small publisher that releases Japanese games in the West. And in 2012, he took over GungHo Online Entertainment America, the U.S. branch of the company behind Japanese mobile sensation Puzzle & Dragons.| Photographer: Jonathan Castillo For this story, former Sony senior product manager David Bamberger dug through his archives and found a series of internal documents and concepts for Final Fantasy 7's U.S. marketing campaign. We scanned the documents into a PDF you can see here, and did that same with a Final Fantasy Tactics marketing plan that shows a store-by-store breakdown of U.S. FF7 sales. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: David Bamberger In addition to the marketing documents, Bamberger kept a series of concept boards that Sony used to decide between different instruction manual artwork options. You can see two of them in the shot above, and two more in the image to the right. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: David Bamberger Prior to Final Fantasy 7's U.S. release, Sony and Square went back and forth on the game's cover art design, with Square U.S. vice president of marketing Jun Iwasaki often taking trips to Tokyo to get final approvals from producer Hironobu Sakaguchi. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: David Bamberger For Final Fantasy 7's U.S. cover art, Bamberger worked with a company called Axiom, which is now known as Origin Studios. Bamberger and others at Sony wanted to create a "line look," where each of Square's early PlayStation covers would look similar so players could identify them in stores, and Bamberger had seen an image of a "Lawrence of Arabia" program from a movie premier and liked how it showed the artwork with a saturated design on a white background, so he passed that idea on to the team at Axiom and together they came up with a look that carried across five Square covers. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo For Final Fantasy 7's U.S. television commercials, advertising agency TBWA Chiat Day initially submitted a series of concept storyboards, seen here. These included one idea that would make it look like the viewer's television exploded because the game was too pretty, and another where butterflies would flock towards the screen because the graphics were so impressive. Bamberger felt these approaches had their strengths, but didn't get across the game's story strongly enough ... Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: David Bamberger ... So Bamberger recorded footage of Final Fantasy 5 and 6 on Super Nintendo, as well as footage of Aerith's death scene from an early version of FF7, to show his contacts at the agency how important story was to the game. The final ideas they developed all played up the game's story in a direct way, and poked fun at dramatic movie trailers. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: David Bamberger For Final Fantasy 7's U.S. magazine ads, Sony again worked with TBWA Chiat Day to sell a similar message focused on the story, style and graphics. Bamberger says he tracked down four pieces of art for the ads, each running in a wide aspect ratio as a reference to the game's movie-like story, and then TBWA Chiat Day put together proofs like the one seen here for Sony's approval. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: David Bamberger One of Sony's goals with the Final Fantasy 7 print ads was to keep the artwork clean without any text running on top, so the team kept the marketing taglines near the bottom of the page. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: David Bamberger In 2017, TBWA Chiat Day works with many of the biggest companies around the world, with a roster including Disney, Netflix, Gatorade and Southwest Airlines. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: David Bamberger Bamberger says the U.S. marketing budget for his team on Final Fantasy 7 was $10 million, and that most of that went into television commercials rather than enthusiast media print ads because of Sony's desire to appeal to a mainstream audience. That figure also included the creation of the game's cover design and marketing materials/bonus items for retail stores. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: David Bamberger To make retailers like Toys "R" Us and Electronics Boutique happy, Sony and Square arranged deals where each store would get something exclusive to offer their customers, such as Final Fantasy 7 T-shirts. For Best Buy, that included prepaid phone cards. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: David Bamberger Despite pumping tens of millions of dollars into Final Fantasy 7s marketing, some at Square werent convinced the game would be able to reach a wide audience in the U.S. and Europe, given the limited reach of previous Final Fantasy games. A Japanese RPG had never broken through in the West, and some thought one never would, given the slower pacing compared to popular Western action games.Iwasaki, Maruyama and the team in Squares new U.S. sales and marketing office took this as a challenge.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.After I joined Square, Sakaguchi-san mentioned, Your mission is to sell a million copies of Final Fantasy 7 in the U.S. Because at that time, Sony hadnt reached a million for any title. A million was sort of the magic number.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square When Final Fantasy was on Nintendo platforms, the series wasnt very popular outside of Japan. Final Fantasy 6 only sold about 400,000 copies in America.  I was very confident that we could sell 2.5 to 3 million in Japan, so that made me comfortable enough that the game didnt seem like a huge risk. But I was also thinking about what it might sell around the world, and I felt some risk there. As time went on, I was able to sign the deal with Sony to put it out under the Sony brand in the U.S., and because of that I was thinking, Oh, maybe well be able to sell a million outside of Japan. Seth Luisi Associate producer, Sony Computer Entertainment America Really, a lot of it was about, How can we help bring Japanese RPGs to North America and really show it as a really big triple-A seller? Because at the time, having working on Japanese RPGs before, people saw it as a very niche market in North America. They didnt see anything as being able to sell more than 30,000 or 50,000 units. So Final Fantasy, our big goal with that one was really to change that. To really promote it as a big title, get the right advertising behind it and getting the really good push behind it so that it had all the attention it deserved and was able to be well received in the North American market.David Bamberger Senior product manager, Sony Computer Entertainment America Our mantra was, Dont drop the baby. Kyoko Higo Assistant marketing associate, Square U.S.The internal office rumors were that if we didnt succeed with FF7, that they were going to shut down operations. So in a way, its like, OK, our jobs are on the line, even though we had this six-title publishing deal. I think the biggest challenge was it visually spoke wonders, but if you were not familiar with the Final Fantasy series at all up until that point, and then it came with the number seven, it was kind of like, How do we ?  visually stunning, the best game that you have to ever own, etc. All these quotes are out there. But it was more of whats really on the inside. Like, How do we communicate that? Starting her career in Hondas legal department, Kyoko Higo soon joined Squares U.S. office as a marketing assistant and, on the side, also served as its quality assurance translator. On Final Fantasy 7, that meant pulling a nightly after-hours shift to organize and translate bugs found in the California office and send them back to the development team in Tokyo. In 2004, she left Square and joined startup publisher XSEED alongside a handful of former Square co-workers.Then in 2006, she went freelance, working as a consultant, interpreter and business development manager with many of the biggest game companies in Japan. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.We asked Sony not to mention the word RPG because people thought role-playing games were too long and repetitive and had a lot of waiting around. From a marketing perspective, we saw that as a bad word.Chris Ansell Project manager, Sony Computer Entertainment Europe Even the whole turn-based nature of the game was, for most European console PlayStation 1 gamers, like, What is this? Why is it so slow? So we constantly were telling people, Look, it starts to feel really fast and just as stressful as a real-time combat game, but you have to get into it. You have to give it a chance to breathe and to teach you the system. Kyoko Higo Assistant marketing associate, Square U.S.For a game at that time, released during that holiday period, I think a lot of people would agree that it was one of the most beautifully made and presented games. And so, having still images printed in magazines would not have been enough to kind of show how attractive and how appealing it is. I think it was almost a no brainer that we had to look into a TV solution. And Sony was already on board .Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.Sony did some PR and other things. But from a creative point of view, we held the rights to approve things. So I would always send things to Sakaguchi-san to check, because these characters were like his kids.Andrew House always complained about that.David Bamberger Senior product manager, Sony Computer Entertainment America We had a three month window. So in packaged goods, if you can release in September, you can get a second reorder for December, and then by Q1 thats kind of the show. The parade has passed.Kyoko Higo Assistant marketing associate, Square U.S.We were getting, I think, weekly updates on preorders at that time.  And the numbers kept on going up. And then the ads started to hit and everything was sort of coming together. Id go into a store, not doing store checks, and see the , the big Cloud standee at the local Electronics Boutique. And a lot of our QA testers  were also students. Because UCI was a 10-15 minute drive from our office. And I remember going into our kitchen or lunchroom, and they were talking about how their friends at school were getting super excited and starting to talk about the game. So there were those small moments.I think the big moment came when it was released and all these cover stories were out. I dont remember how many covers we secured, but Im sure it was  I remember PSM, EGM. Most of the magazines wanted covers. So we were starting to see them framed in our office. And then, when week one sales, week two sales, we started seeing numbers. We were hearing  that this title was on track to become the fastest title to reach a million units in that year. Which we did. We hit it in just under three months.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.I remember Andrew House called me and said, Oh, we shipped a million.And I called Takechi-san first. And I said, We got it to a million! And he said, Oh, thats good. David Bamberger Senior product manager, Sony Computer Entertainment America I had a $20 bet with was going to sell through a million by March. And I lost the bet.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square When we found out that we reached a million , we all went to Roppongi and partied. We were really happy with how the sales were growing and growing outside of Japan. Basically, we went with Sony because we wanted to create titles with a lot of CG in them and make games that were different from what was already out there, and thats why we made a big investment in Final Fantasy. And because of the success of Final Fantasy 7,we were able to put out more and more titles after.Spending his career in marketing, David Bamberger has worked with many of the largest companies in the game industry  from Electronic Arts to Ubisoft to Eidos. While at Sony, he worked on the rollout plans for Final Fantasy 7s North American release, coordinating with Squares U.S. office on packaging, advertising and merchandise. In 2009, he joined Sega, working out of its San Francisco office. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Following the news of Final Fantasy 7 selling a million copies in the West, a group from Square Japan went to a bar in Tokyos Roppongi district to celebrate. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Kyoko Higo Assistant marketing associate, Square U.S.So it came out on September 7th, 97, and then I remember the first week of December I walked into the office one morning and wanted to gather everyone and announce that we had just hit the one-million unit mark, and that Andy House had just sent us a few bottles of champagne, I believe. And , because he got the news before he left the house, or as he was coming into the office, he bought a few more bottles, and that day was like the happiest day at the office. After working so hard, long hours, a couple overnighters even  not just a couple, but many, overnighters for even someone like myself who was on the marketing side.  That was, I think, our proudest and happiest day that came right before the holidays.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.Then Kyoko and the team gave me a plaque. I was crying at that time, so I remember that.Kyoko Higo Assistant marketing associate, Square U.S.I can never speak on behalf of the development team, but I think it was a huge boost of confidence, in terms of not just accomplishing something, creating this massive game with tons of people, but also to sort of crack that overseas market and being able to have a Western audience or Western fans.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square It ended up selling three million in North America and two million in Europe, so it worked out really well. It basically became a worldwide series.After Square sold a million copies of Final Fantasy 7 in the U.S., Square employees made a plaque for vice president of marketing Jun Iwasaki to celebrate the occasion. Years later, he got a similar plaque when Square's action role-playing game Kingdom Hearts reached the same milestone. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: Jun Iwasaki As part of Final Fantasy 7's launch, Square made 100 jackets to hand out to team members who worked on the game. Some still have them almost 20 years later. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: Frank Hom For this story, former Square marketing associate Kyoko Higo provided a series of 1997 photographs showing the Square U.S. team. Photographer: Jonathan Castillo; Materials credit: Kyoko Higo While most aspects of Final Fantasy 7s Western release proved successful, the game didnt come and go without a dose of controversy  one surrounding its portrayal of black and gay characters.In 1997, players didnt have the same social media loudspeaker to complain that they do in 2017, but some fans still expressed their distaste for how one of the games primary characters, Barret, plays into black stereotypes and how the games main character, Cloud, visits a bath house filled with men acting out gay stereotypes.Some of the complaints focused on the games content  such as Barrets character design, which presents him as a hulking, tough angry black man  while others focused on its English localization.Keith Boesky President, Eidos (1997-1999) Well, there was the Barret stuff.  There was the controversy around Barrets language, that he was speaking Ebonics.Alexander O. Smith Localization specialist, Square U.S. and Japan (1998-2002) I probably wasnt as aware of those issues then as I hope I am now. So it didnt  I mean, I thought, Why is this Mr. T?  That did strike me. I remember that.Kazushige Nojima Scenario writer, Square Japan I dont want to talk about this in too much detail, but personally maybe I didnt put enough thought into , into how they would be received. I kind of learned from the reaction I got. Especially with the racial discrimination, I wasnt very aware of what I was depicting in the scenario, and it wasnt until someone told me about the criticism that I became fully aware of what I was putting into the story.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan I did hear complaints about Barret. I later asked why.  I think it had to do with the localization and translation not being very good. Ever since that experience, weve paid a lot more attention to localization. Back then, we werent very strict about controlling it. We just let the translators do what they thought was best. But it led to them adding and portraying things that we never intended in our original script. So since then, weve worked with the translation team to make sure the localization is as close as possible to the original.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.Before then, the development teams in Japan care about localization, but after Final Fantasy 7, a lot of the teams asked about cultural and localization issues.As a grad student in the late 90s, Alexander O. Smith played Final Fantasy 7 and saw an opportunity to put his own spin on the series English text. So he pursued a job in localization and joined Squares team as it was wrapping up Final Fantasy 8.Smith had a history in localization, having subtitled soap operas for a Japanese television station in Hawaii, and went on to become one of Squares most popular English writers. In 2002, he left Square to start a small translation company called Kajiya Productions, and has continued to work on many of Square and Square Enixs games. In June 2016, he announced that Kajiya Productions is working on Square Enixs remastered version of Final Fantasy 12. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Chris Ansell Project manager, Sony Computer Entertainment Europe Translations are like that  youre always gonna have language purists who are like, It could be so much better. And it turns out, well, specific phrases could have been better. But to hear them speak, its like the whole thing, it should be like a childrens book or something in its translation quality. So I do recall there was definitely some feedback about, It could be so much better in this language, or They missed the idea of this because I can speak Japanese and you didnt get across that concept. So there was certainly an element of that, but I do think a lot of it is tough to avoid.Alexander O. Smith Localization specialist, Square U.S. and Japan (1998-2002) I mean, obviously theres really, really bad translation out there, and FF7 is not that at all. What I saw was there seemed to be a lack of flow between some of the lines. Occasionally things would throw me for a loop. They still kind of throw me for a loop. Now I understand why the choices were made better.  I heard only had like a couple months to do it.Kyoko Higo Assistant marketing associate, Square U.S.was a tiny localization department.  But without their work, a lot of what we ended up playing would not have happened.Alexander O. Smith Localization specialist, Square U.S. and Japan (1998-2002) the thing that I heard most in terms of reaction was, Were going to spend a lot more time on this translation than they spent on 7. Because they werent given time on 7.  Thats really the story of Square in those days. Its changed a lot now.  There was so little communication between dev and localization. Localization didnt even exist as a department back then. We were actually officially subsumed to this  oh my God, what was it? It was like an IT division or something ridiculous. It had nothing to do with localization at all, except that one of the programmers from IT was the guy that they roped into handling the single-byte character conversions and stuff like that.  You know, they were using GameSharks to hack FF8 so they could get to text because nobody would give them files. Because, Oh, you need files to do translation? That was news to the dev team at that point. So that sort of complete lack of communication was emblematic of those days.Two of Final Fantasy 7s main characters, Cloud (left) and Barret (right), each ran into a bit of controversy after the games release. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo In the period following Final Fantasy 7s initial release, Square shuffled many of its resources. Parts of the company continued on to the direct follow-up, Final Fantasy 8. Others continued to develop the rest of Squares numerous titles. Others teamed up with Western publisher Electronic Arts to form a new distribution partnership. Still others went off to start a new studio in Hawaii, which caused problems for the company as time went on.It was a time of change for the company riding high on FF7s success around the globe.One smaller project to appear in the aftermath was a Final Fantasy 7 PC port.Even before the PlayStation games release, a small group in Squares Costa Mesa office began looking into the possibility of putting the game on PC. Square wanted to reach players in the U.S. and Europe who didnt own PlayStations, and its publishing deal with Sony didnt prevent it from pursuing a PC version elsewhere. After some back and forth, Square struck a deal with Tomb Raider publisher Eidos.Many at Square saw this as an experiment, figuring the company might be able to squeeze extra sales out of the game it had put so much money behind. An experiment that began with a phone call between Square U.S. head Yoshihiro Maruyama and Eidos president Keith Boesky.Keith Boesky President, Eidos (1997-1999) I got a call two weeks before E3 from Yoshi. Id never met him before.  I got a call from Yoshi just saying, Hi, this is Yoshi Maruyama, and Id like to set a meeting at E3 because wed like to talk about publishing Final Fantasy 7. And Im sitting in my office, and I just  I looked at the phone. I said, Final Fantasy 7  are you serious? And he said, Yeah. And I said, OK, Ill be there tomorrow. And I got on a plane and flew from San Francisco to Orange County to meet with him, because we didnt know what it was going to be, but there had been a ton of press.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.Another publisher referred me to somebody who was covering their Asian operations. I wont name the company, but  Keith Boesky President, Eidos (1997-1999) I was just, OK, Im there. EA wouldnt take the meeting.  Pretty much nobody else. There were a couple other people who took meetings at E3, but I was the only one who went down. I met him in Orange County. I dont even think he showed me anything. And we talked about it. We told him we were interested. He came by. He met some more people at E3. E3 was in Atlanta that year. Met more people at E3. And then he went for six months and visited all of the Eidos offices, which is more than I did as president. But he went to Hamburg. He went to France. He went to all the offices to look at Eidos operation.Elaine Di lorio Manager of business development, Square U.S.My understanding was it was kind of an experiment. had never done a PC port and they thought that they would set up a team in the U.S. to do the PC port.  So we made the rounds .Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.Eidos was a very exciting company at the time because Tomb Raider was becoming a big franchise. And they did tremendous marketing.In 1996, Elaine Di lorio joined Squares Costa Mesa office as employee number 13, working for executive vice president Yoshihiro Maruyama. Over the course of four years there, she handled many of the companys business relationships with Sony Computer Entertainment America and Europe, as well as strategy guide publisher BradyGames. She also played a role in setting up Squares deal with Eidos to port, market and distribute Final Fantasy 7 on PC, and stuck around for a couple of years after the ports release to work on a variety of games. After leaving Square, she went on to business development roles at development studios Blizzard and Red 5, amongst others outside the game industry. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Frank Hom Associate producer, Eidos (1995-2001) We had our act together in some parts. We were making it up as we go in other parts. But the product was always number one.Elaine Di lorio Manager of business development, Square U.S.I thought it was a great company.  From a business standpoint, they just seemed to have everything we needed. They understood us, Square and the game. They were a small company, so they were a little more lean and a little more agile.  It wasnt going into some larger company that we might get lost in.Keith Boesky President, Eidos (1997-1999) It was Dave Cox, Paul Baldwin and Mike McGarvey and Sutton Trout who launched Tomb Raider in November of 1996 and made us the number two publisher in the world, only behind EA. So those guys are good. They knew what they were doing. Tomb Raider was a great game, but great games dont .  But it was iffy. It was a risk.  We were kind of on the fence, because first of all, would somebody play a Final Fantasy RPG on a PC, and then also, would people play an async RPG on a PC thats coming out a year after the console?Elaine Di lorio Manager of business development, Square U.S.I think releasing a PC version was a big risk, but it was also kind of a test. I dont think was expecting the same kind of triple-A title that they got on the console, but I think they wanted to kind of try their hand at the PC version and see what would happen.Frank Hom Associate producer, Eidos (1995-2001) All the producers were huge fans, and we completely supported the idea. Especially me  I was very excited, super happy. Like, Oh, weve gotta do this no matter what. Keith Boesky President, Eidos (1997-1999) wanted a million eight. And you have to understand Tomb Raider cost $900,000. So was a lot of money for a title at the time  and was a lot of money for PC. And I walked down the hall, and Mike McGarvey was in town. McGarvey ran Europe; I ran U.S. And we went into Rob Stannetts office, who was the CFO  and Mike picked up a piece of paper off of Robs desk, wrote down a million eight  And he just looked at it and said OK, yeah, thats about 100,000 units. And Rob, what do you think? And Rob said, Yeah, we can do that and just move on. Lets not be stagnant over the decision. And that was it. That was our green light, and we picked it up.  That was the MG, minimum guarantee.  Its an advance against royalties. We had a royalty deal with them where we published and we gave them a piece of every unit we sold, less certain deductions, and I dont remember the details of what they were. And the advance, what happens is you give them a forecast: I think well sell this many. And well back that up by giving you hard dollars, nonrefundable, up front against the earn out. So we wrote them a check for a million eight as a minimum guarantee to secure the publishing rights on PC.  We signed a deal about six months after the first meeting, which is record time for a Japanese company.Frank Hom Associate producer, Eidos (1995-2001) It was a pretty high-profile title in our company, equal to Tomb Raider at the time. It was just a big deal.William Chen Lead programmer, Square U.S. (1997-2000) We had about 15-20 people working on it, mostly in Squares Costa Mesa office but with some help from Tokyo.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.It was much more work than we thought . Because PC was  it was very tough to decide what kind of CPU the game was going to run on, with what kind of graphics card.  We spent lots of time finetuning the technical level of detail.Frank Hom Associate producer, Eidos (1995-2001) It was a huge risk on the development side, because the team had to do a lot of work. Almost, I believe, 80 percent of the game code was rewritten. They took a very custom-made game for the PlayStation, and they had to extrapolate that and redo a lot of things to make it just work on PC  I actually camped out there for a while because it was getting delayed.Keith Boesky President, Eidos (1997-1999) It was a very complex port. Because there were, if I remember, there were five different game engines.William Chen Lead programmer, Square U.S. (1997-2000) Square had different people writing code for each part of the PlayStation game, with different styles and engines, so it was quite a challenge to unify those on PC with a small team. But overall Id say the development went better than expected, and the game sold much better than we all expected as well.Keith Boesky President, Eidos (1997-1999) I think we forecast 100,000 units and we did a million plus.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.200 in North America, 200 in the European market, and 100,000 in Korea.Frank Hom Associate producer, Eidos (1995-2001) It sold pretty close to a million at full price, I would say, and then it went into a number of variations  budget versions and whatnot.Keith Boesky President, Eidos (1997-1999) I think the first royalty check we sent them, and Yoshi will never acknowledge this, but he did this because I joke with him a lot about it  The first check we sent them, I think, was $2 million. That means, in the first quarter, we exceeded the million eight, plus another two million in royalties. So we did real well. And Yoshi sent the check back to me.  I get this check on my desk, and I called him up and said, What are you doing? And he says, You didnt include a royalty statement so we couldnt accept the check. And I said, Yoshi, youre dealing with an American company. Keep the check. Ask for the statement, but dont send it back to me.  Its funny because the deal actually led to us becoming very close to merging Square and Eidos. The way that we saw it was, our philosophy of game building was very similar. Neither one of us did licensed . Both of us were focused on very, very high-quality games  high-quality, character-driven games. And we had Europe and the U.S. and they had Japan. And we actually had the first meeting at that E3 in Atlanta, and then the second E3 in Atlanta, we had a meeting the CEO of the holding group, Charles Cornwall, Ian Livingstone, the chairman of the company, and then Miyamoto  the owner of Square, not Miyamoto the Nintendo dude  and then the owner of Digicube, which was a division of Square. We had a big, private dinner and came really close to a merger in 98 .  The funny thing is, I got a call from Square, because they wanted to rerelease the PC version, and they asked me if I knew where the gold master was. I left the company in 1999. What am I gonna do with that? Oh yeah, you know, its right here in my desk drawer. That big box that I carried out? Yeah, I was carrying the gold master and all the source. Let me just give it to you. Yeah, they lost it.Frank Hom Associate producer, Eidos (1995-2001) My understanding is actually  what Im most kind of proud of  is that they kept the code. I believe the version that they put out on mobile and PS4 is actually the PC code that we worked on.Serving as the main point of contact at Eidos, Frank Hom oversaw development of the Final Fantasy 7 PC port, working closely with the development team in Squares Costa Mesa office. As the PC version ran into delays, he essentially became a middleman between the developers at Square and the executives at Eidos. Hom left Eidos in 2001 and spent nine years as a producer at Ubisoft before joining Sega of America in 2010. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo In the 90s, game publishers often put PC games in custom boxes so they would stand out in stores. For Final Fantasy 7, Eidos went with this triangular look. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo While Square ended up making money with Final Fantasy 7 PC, the companys bread and butter remained PlayStation games. And following the completion of the six-game publishing deal with Sony in 1998, Squares U.S. publishing plans  on both console and PC, including the companys next big game, Final Fantasy 8  were up in the air.Some within Squares U.S. office wanted to begin to publish games themselves. Others wanted to continue working with Eidos. Square Japans executive team had a different plan  teaming up for a distribution deal with Electronic Arts.Together, the companies formed Square EA as a joint venture to publish Squares games in the U.S., and EA Square to publish EAs games in Japan.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.After we finished the Sony deal, the first-party deal  I thought we finally had a chance to be a publisher of our own in the U.S. But all of a sudden, headquarters ordered the joint venture with EA. It was a tough time.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.EA came very strongly to us. They wanted the rights to the PC version .  They negotiated really hard for the PC rights. Because you know, we gave the rights to Eidos, and Eidos did tremendous work. So I felt it was right to keep giving the license to Eidos, but you know, we started having the joint venture, so  The game Electronic Arts had its eyes on when forming Square EA, Final Fantasy 8 went on to sell more than 8 million copies across different platforms. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square When we first released Final Fantasy 7 outside Japan, we had Sonys help, and we realized that you need strong distribution to succeed outside Japan. And we were wondering if we should go solo or partner up with somebody. And then Miyamoto-san suggested, Why dont we become partners with EA to put out our games outside of Japan? So we went and talked with EA.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.I dont know why the executives at that time decided to form Square EA. I think it was some sort of political issue.Keith Boesky President, Eidos (1997-1999) in dealing with Japanese companies, historically theres a concept in Japan of famous. And EA is a famous company, and Eidos wasnt.Frank Hom Associate producer, Eidos (1995-2001) We were a new publisher, kind of a hip, new publisher, but we werent the known-name, stable publisher, and that was EA at the time. And I think president in Japan decided, If were going to do a long-term commitment, were gonna do it with somebody a little more established and not new, even though the U.S. office group really liked us.Rex Ishibashi Vice president of business development, Electronic Arts (1997-2001) Electronic Arts had more of a track record, and not that this was on the table, but acquisitions and partnering, than I think Eidos did. And I think its safe to say it was a much healthier company financially.  Certainly a spark plug in the whole discussion was the success of Final Fantasy 7.John Riccitiello President and chief operating officer, Electronic Arts (1998-2004) was all of the reason for wanting to do it. It started with to publish and/or distribute Final Fantasy and it grew into this .  I mean, realistically, when you stand in a room with another smart person, youve got an idea, you listen to their ideas, and you settle on one that works for both people. Square had global ambitions and wasnt willing to sort of cede control in a traditional publishing deal. So we structured something different.Rex Ishibashi Vice president of business development, Electronic Arts (1997-2001) There were two joint ventures  one joint venture set up in Japan where the idea was Square would help EA, and a joint venture set up in North America where EA would help Square. Obviously the biggest clear opportunity, and proven opportunity, was for EA to take over distribution of Final Fantasy and the other Square games in the West. Whether EA had games that would truly, or could truly, crack Japan was another matter.John Riccitiello President and chief operating officer, Electronic Arts (1998-2004) Theres no question that the Western deal worked a lot better. EA didnt make a lot of content that worked in Japan, culturally, and realistically no Western publisher did. Oddly enough, back in those days it was really unusual for a Western title to get more than 50,000 units in Japan. And so I dont think that really got off the ground in a huge way. But it was actually never the bigger part of this deal to begin with. It was just reciprocal because two big companies like to imagine theyre reciprocal.  It was really more about the Western deal and the marketing of Final Fantasy. I dont have the unit numbers in front of us, but they were pretty damn good.Rex Ishibashi Vice president of business development, Electronic Arts (1997-2001) It certainly wasnt perfectly smooth sailing. At the end of the day, Square  even with its U.S. presence  was a very Japanese company. And again, when I say that, I say that respectfully. I dont mean a big hulking dinosaur like Matsushita or Honda. I mean kind of a new breed of Japanese company that was very aggressive.  And there wasnt a long history of creative Japanese companies cracking the West as Square was doing, at least in terms of video game unit numbers. There just wasnt. You can point to things like Godzilla, or whatever you want to point to, and theyre kind of really novelties, right? You can point to Kurosawa films, and 90 percent of the film-going public in the West has no idea who he is. So, long way of saying, it was certainly interesting, because while Japanese games companies were very successful in Japan, of course, there werent many independent companies, certainly besides Nintendo, that were really making headway in the way that Square was with the Final Fantasy franchise.John Riccitiello President and chief operating officer, Electronic Arts (1998-2004) Id say if there was a downside , it was probably a more complicated structure than you needed for what amounted to a publishing deal.Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA Each quarter wed have board meetings, and wed meet with Larry Probst and John Riccitiello. But we didnt really see eye to eye and had a lot of different opinions on a lot of things, so there was a lot of friction there.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.I worked with John Riccitiello. We had quarterly board meetings, and we always fought in those. Maybe he hated me.John Riccitiello President and chief operating officer, Electronic Arts (1998-2004) It was trivial. I mean, first off, the most senior person that was working on the deal in the U.S. would have been a junior manager at EA. They were young and inexperienced.  There was a guy, Iwasaki or whatever, at that point. He was also a pretty junior guy, and a good guy  nothing wrong with him. And they always wanted higher volumes and bigger guarantees, and the sales guy in the U.S. wanted to be a little more conservative and let the market play itself out. You know, the standard friction between somebody thats responsible for the outcome and someone thats responsible for a better forecast. There was definitely a little bit of friction.  If you were taking a look at the battlefield, it would look peaceful and harmonious from 30 feet in the air. But in the foxhole or under the table, some of the children were foot fighting a little bit, I guess. But it was never much more than that, really.Rex Ishibashi Vice president of business development, Electronic Arts (1997-2001) You know, any time theres a joint venture of two very powerful, creative, opinionated companies that have had success in their own right, Im not surprised that there would be disagreements. Especially when you think about cultural differences. Were talking about two companies that, I think, at every board meeting required a translator.  I very specifically remember, in the early conversations, where we were trying to use a third-party translator to conduct some of the conversations. And Yoshi Maruyamas English is better than my Japanese, but he and I would be correcting the nuance of the translator. Because it was like, Thats not quite right. You know, you take that literally and youre going to be making decisions based on the wrong information, or the wrong communication.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.Square was focusing on PlayStation only whereas EA was a multiplatform game company. They kept publishing on Nintendo as well as Sega as well as PC. So there was a bit of a different approach because they could spread out marketing across different platforms, but you know, we only published for the PlayStation. So there was that kind of discussion between us  why were we just doing it? We told them that the Japanese game market was always a winner takes all type of market. It used to be Nintendo. Now its PlayStation, so we had no intent to make any games for other consoles like Sega or Nintendo. But the U.S. market was twice as big. So they understood it, but they still wanted us to make games for other consoles. Which Square, you know, firmly refused.Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA Probably the biggest thing was, EA and Square were really frustrated with each other because, at the time, EA didnt think that Japanese RPGs would sell in the States at all. And conversely, Square didnt think that EAs games, just by localizing them into Japanese, would sell in Japan either.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.I never understood Square EA.  After we finished the EA deal  so five years after  finally we did our own publishing in the U.S. When we did that, we made huge profits compared to previous years.John Riccitiello President and chief operating officer, Electronic Arts (1998-2004) It was never intended to be forever. You know, so, it worked out nicely. I dont think theres any hard feelings either way.  Partnership worked out. EA made revenue and profit. Square made revenue and profit. Square brands got better established in the West. And I maintain a relationship to this day with Square. Its a very positive one.Square EAs output ran the gamut, from mainstream hits like Kingdom Hearts to critical disappointment The Bouncer and hardcore fan favorite Xenogears. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Of Squares post-Final Fantasy 7 initiatives, many say the most ambitious was its studio in Honolulu, Hawaii, which the company opened in 1997.While Square had multiple studios around the world, the idea behind the Hawaii studio was that it wouldnt just develop games. It would also make movies. As Square had ramped up its CG resources working on cutscenes for FF7, Sakaguchi saw the potential to push that technology further.The first result of that idea, Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within, was a big-budget film loosely connected to the rest of the Final Fantasy series. The movie hit theaters in 2001.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA Toward the end of Final Fantasy 7, Sakaguchi-san came to visit my desk and said, Oh, we have a lot of movie clips in Final Fantasy 7. We may be able to make a movie now. And I said, Are you serious? Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square After the success of Final Fantasy 7, there were two main things that changed, two main goals that we set for ourselves. The first thing is we wanted to put a lot of power behind our graphics capabilities, because we were thinking in five or 10 years that was going to be the big thing in games. That was one of the reasons why we decided to make the Final Fantasy movie. Then the second thing was we knew that network features were going to be a big deal, so thats why we decided to take Final Fantasy online .Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA You know, when Sakaguchi-san asked me to join Square, I told him that if Square was thinking about just competing with Sega or Namco, I wouldnt be interested. If Square really wanted to compete with Disney or other global entertainment companies, then it would be very exciting.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.This was Sakaguchi-sans dream. He wanted to make the first 3D graphics movie.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square In some ways, Sakaguchi-san had a lot of flexibility to do what he wanted after Final Fantasy 7s success, but Square wasnt just his company. Square was a very ambitious company, and as a digital entertainment company, we were talking about wanting to be bigger than Disney. So we were thinking, OK, what is a digital entertainment company? Whats the definition? And then we came across the idea of, Were not just a company that makes games. So why dont we make movies as well? Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA Right as we finished Final Fantasy 7, Sakaguchi-san asked me to build up the movie production studio in Hawaii. Most people at Square had one month off, a one-month vacation. I didnt. I needed to work on this movie project. I got involved with the Hawaii studio from the very beginning, to find office space, until the lease ran out. So I was there from the very beginning to the very end. The whole time was about five years, 1997 to 2002.Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA Sakaguchi-san, he left for Hawaii and built a studio in Honolulu, and from that point on, he had nothing to do with Squares games in Japan anymore. He just concentrated on making the movie.Motonori Sakakibara Movie director, Square Officially, the reason for Hawaii was that we could connect all the artists from Japan and America, and Hawaii is the middle point between both countries.  because Sakaguchi-san liked Hawaii.As Square began hiring staff in the mid-90s to make high-end computer graphics, Motonori Sakakibara joined the team, first working on the Final Fantasy 6: The Interactive CG Game tech demo, then overseeing Final Fantasy 7s cutscenes. He went on to co-direct Squares movie Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within and then started a CG animation company called Sprite Animation with a team of about 10 people who had worked on Spirits Within. In 2017, he runs Sprite Animation alongside former Square senior vice president Junichi Yanagihara. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA We needed to decide how to build the movie production. Game production is like a small-scale factory, but movie production needs to be a large-scale factory  Not easy. You know Pixar? They spent about 10 years to build a movie pipeline in their studio. Square did it in just two years.Junichi Yanagihara Executive vice president, Square USA Whenever you make a movie for the first time, there is a learning curve.  And sometimes, as you can imagine, there is what we call development hell in which many different people come in and try to give so much input that it causes a delay of the process. As a result, we couldnt reach the consensus as to what to do with the story.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA Working in the game industry working until very late at night.  Many of the people were from the U.S. or other nations, and theyd prioritize their personal lives. They wouldnt stay at the office so late. Usually they would go home at 7 or 8 at the latest. Things were all different.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan The checks and balances werent there. I think, in terms of producing a game, Sakaguchi-san was probably pretty reliable in terms of his beat in terms of what worked and what didnt work. But when it came to working in a different medium, I think  the fact that there wasnt really anybody there to provide objective and constructive criticism was a detriment.Alexander O. Smith Localization specialist, Square U.S. and Japan (1998-2002) The movie  was an unmitigated disaster.  I talked to the lawyer, and I just remember at a party, but she was the lawyer from Hawaii who had handled their applications for doing the movie there. And there were so many tax benefits on the table, and they didnt take a single one. Because they went in and they were like, Were bringing our team. And they were like, You hire 10 percent Hawaiian and you get this huge tax cut. And I dont think it was like Sakaguchi sitting there going, No, were keeping it pure. Its our team. I dont think there was any thought at all. I think it was like, that came in and the whole organization was so dysfunctional that when that kind of news hits the grind, it never gets to the person that needs to hear it.And thats the problem when youve got that kind of power structure. Its like a family thing. And this is endemic in Japanese companies where it operates like a family instead of a business. And so, if something isnt on the familys radar, it just doesnt happen. And there are so many missed opportunities there. So apparently, they could have saved so much money  millions of dollars  if they had taken advantage of these really easy . They just had to hire janitors locally, really, and they could have done it.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I think changed style in a slightly negative way. He thought he could do anything within the company. Thats why he started investing even more money in Final Fantasy the movie, which became one of the biggest flops. That made him a little out of control. The original budget of the film was like $40 million dollars, and it close to $150 million. So when I actually did the calculation on how much it was going to cost based on the number of people Sakaguchi wanted to assign, I quickly figured out it couldnt be finished for $40 million. But you know, they did it anyway. They kept investing more money.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan Theres sort of this expression in Japan where you say, Its somebody elses money. And you can take it as, You need to treat it with respect because its not yours. Or you can say, Well its not mine, so its there to spend. Junichi Yanagihara Executive vice president, Square USA It was all funded by Square itself. It was self-funded. And sooner or later, if you study and analyze this, youll probably run into some articles about what happened.  After the film project, Square went through a financially challenging time.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square With the money we earned from Final Fantasy 7, we decided, OK lets use half of it as an investment for the future, and lets save the other half. So because of that, we didnt go into a management crisis when the movie underperformed.  From a business point of view it wasnt a success. But I feel like a Japanese game publisher in the year 2000 creating a movie in CG was a big accomplishment, so I dont regret making it at all. I think its something that people will come around to praise in the long run.A former lawyer in Seattle, Junichi Yanagihara helped Square establish three offices over the course of the 90s. He started with Squares first U.S. headquarters in Redmond, Wash., then helped open its game production studio in Los Angeles, then finally helped open its movie studio in Honolulu. Yanagihara stayed with the Honolulu studio until its final day in 2002, tying up the remaining legal issues, then branched out with a team of former co-workers to start independent CG animation studio Sprite Animation, which has credits including TV show Pac-Man and the Ghostly Adventures. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo In addition to releasing two versions of Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within on DVD, Square worked with author Steven Kent and strategy guide publisher BradyGames to produce a book covering the movies tech, design and script. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Following the struggles of Spirits Within, Square ran into another issue: The company delayed its next major game release, Final Fantasy 10. While game industry delays are common and the company had plenty of smaller projects to keep things moving forward, the combination of two big financial setbacks so close together put Square in a tough position.Eventually, both Sakaguchi and Takechi left the company.With the departures of its top creative and business figures, Square  for many  began to feel like a different company.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square In 2001, the fiscal year ending in March, that was the first year that Square ever went into the red.  The movie was the main reason for that. But we also delayed Final Fantasy 10 past the end of the fiscal year, and that was another big factor.  And to take responsibility for going into the red, I decided to step down and leave the company. Then Sakaguchi-san said, Well, its not fair for you to have to leave, so Ill take responsibility and leave as well. Thats why Sakaguchi-san left.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA There were many, many reasons why I left. But to try and sum it up  My official title was executive vice president, and that meant, of course, that I had a mountain of administrative tasks to attend to. Every morning I would have a stack of papers waiting on my desk to review and approve. If there was a change to the labor laws, for instance, I had to go through training and then update our employee policies. There was a ton of work like that, but I wanted to be involved in creating things again, so all this stress was just building up in me. I really loved Square, you know, and I was grateful for my position, but it just didnt feel like me. That feeling was the main reason I quit.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan For me, it was like, Huh? What happened? There was a generational difference, you see. There was Sakaguchi-sans generation, then there was Kitase-sans generation, then below that were younger guys like me. And we didnt have that much direct contact with the older guys.  It took awhile before anyone even told me he had quit! I think I was one of the last people to know. I remember how, when I came into work that day, everyone had this somber look on their face.Alexander O. Smith Localization specialist, Square U.S. and Japan (1998-2002) Personally, I was like, Oh, end of an era, you know. But I didnt feel like  because so much of the time I was there, and I hate to come back to this yet again, but it was the movie. And so, it didnt seem like such a bad thing. And certainly the guys got more stories left in him. It didnt seem like that was the place to tell them.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA I left Square because Sakaguchi-san left. I had a position in the Tokyo office, so I could have gone back , but it felt like the company had changed a lot.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan I shouldnt be saying this, but hmm, how to put this? It was like Sangokushi . You know, where the king dies, and then a civil war erupts and everyone starts fighting each other.In 2012, Square Enix moved its headquarters to a building in Shinjuku, where it continues to operate today. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Lets see, what can I say here? At the time, Sakaguchi-san held a unique position at Square. He was simultaneously an executive vice president, a board member of the company and a game developer himself. Theres no one quite like that in the company today, so in that sense, things did change a lot.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Yeah, Sakaguchi-san had shaped so many different things at Square. Now theres multiple, different voices.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan That singular vision kind of changed when he left  as Nomura said, instead of Sakaguchi-san deciding things alone, when he left, there was a greater diversity of ideas that flowed in.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan Its one of those where, when somebody like Sakaguchi-san, who had such authority in the company, kind of just disappears, theres this vacuum that exists where nobody can really arbitrate between your devs and your artists and your game designers. And in that environment, most people  especially in Square  tended to avoid conflict and try to resolve things as best as possible. And unfortunately, the way each individual tried to resolve it wasnt necessarily in the end users interests.Kazuyuki Hashimoto CG supervisor, Square Japan; Chief technical officer and senior vice president, Square USA Especially during the Final Fantasy 7 period, Sakaguchi-san made every big decision. That was why everybody moved quickly. It was so exciting. And after Sakaguchi-san left, no one wanted to take responsibility, so all the decision making needed lots of approvals, which took a long, long time. The company didnt move very quickly. It suffered from big company disease. Shinichiro Kajitani Vice president, Square USA When Sakaguchi-san wanted to make a decision, it would just happen like that. But after he left, several people had to do it.  It became more of a committee-based thing, so it took a lot more time to get things done.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.Management was totally changing at Squaresoft. They went from one extreme to the other. Before then, they had no control over costs. But all of a sudden, cost control became a big deal.Motonori Sakakibara Movie director, Square The company seemed like it was becoming . At the beginning of this interview, I mentioned that Square was very creative  the first priority was creativity, right? But I think after the movie project, they changed some of the direction of the company, especially after Sakaguchi left.Junichi Yanagihara Executive vice president, Square USA It was a big event, the period between 1995 and 2001.  Everything went by very quickly and very dramatically.Alexander O. Smith Localization specialist, Square U.S. and Japan (1998-2002) It was the transition from the family business to the business business.  Everything got stratified and there was more division between departments. We had to do  oh yeah, there was all this reporting stuff that went on. Like, What did you do this quarter? How did things work out? That sort of stuff. So yeah, it was a cultural shift.Tomoyuki Takechi President and chief executive officer, Square When I left the company  things were changing a lot. Personally, leaving the company was, of course, a sad time. But I thought that the company seemed to be headed for big things, so I was happy for it.  I always feel like if you dont take risks, the flowers arent going to bloom. So Im happy things worked out for the company after I left.In the early 2000s, as Takechi and Sakaguchi left Square, and others, including new president Yoichi Wada, took over, Square wasnt only changing behind the scenes. It was also changing its output, as Final Fantasy shifted from a franchise with one new sequel every couple of years to a franchise with multiple branches and spin-off titles releasing more frequently.In 2003, one of these branches took the form of what Square called the Compilation of Final Fantasy 7  a series of a new CG film, Final Fantasy 7: Advent Children, and three FF7 spin-off games. Some saw this as Square whipping the horse too hard to get more sales out of the Final Fantasy brand. Others liked the variety and creativity behind the approach.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan I think it was important to get somebody who had a different perspective on the business of making games. And its not the actual development of games per se, but to actually be shipping games and selling games.Yoichi Wada President and chief executive officer, Square/Square Enix (2001-2013) When I joined the company in the year 2000, I foresaw that the game industry would get bigger and more diversified, and I knew Id need to make changes in order to respond to that. So the goals prior to 2000, and the targets Square needed to work on after 2000, were a little bit different.  One unique thing about the Final Fantasy franchise is that, usually if you have a series of numbered games, the protagonist remains the same and you have a central theme that connects the series. But with Final Fantasy, every game is different from the last. So because of that, we decided to create subseries within the overall series. So theres a Final Fantasy 7 series of games underneath it, and Final Fantasy 10 has its own spin-off games underneath it.Jun Iwasaki Vice president of marketing, Square U.S.I was disappointed because they wore out Final Fantasy. I heard after I left the company  that Final Fantasys loyalty decreased with U.S. customers.Alexander O. Smith Localization specialist, Square U.S. and Japan (1998-2002) Well, I mean, its that problem of you have to balance making money with a known cash cow against diluting the IP. So yeah, well, what are you going to do? I think thats symptomatic of Square. I think it would be awesome if, in an alternate universe, Square could say, OK, were just having 50 people now. Everyone else is going to take a vacation for two years. And these 50 people are going to make a Final Fantasy game. You know, and what happens? What do they do? That would be really cool to see. But impossible. And when the balance sheet is determining everything, then I think you back yourself into that situation where, We have to release things. Nobuo Uematsu Music composer, Square Japan Personally, I want each game in a series to be treated with a lot of care, so Im not a big fan of one game having a bunch of spin-offs and sequels. But I understand that from a company, sales, money point of view, it makes sense.A few years after Final Fantasy 7s launch, Yoichi Wada stepped in to take over Squares operations. Some on the team disagreed with his approach of putting more formal processes in place, lining up multiple Final Fantasy spinoff games, merging with Enix and acquiring Taito, Eidos and others. But Wada held his role until 2013, when he stepped down to form experimental cloud gaming team Shinra Technologies, which Square initially funded. Wada remained with Square in a reduced capacity as chairman of the board of the companys Tokyo subsidiary for two years, then left to focus on Shinra, which went under in 2016. Following Shinras demise, Wada has advised a variety of companies in the game industry. | Photographer: Irwin Wong For Sonys PlayStation 3 unveiling press conference in 2005, Square Enix put together a tech demo to show what Final Fantasy 7 could theoretically look like on the hardware. The result led to plenty of speculation that Square was working on a full remake, which team members say wasnt true. Instead, they say Sony requested a tech demo from Square Enix for the event  either of an updated FF7 or of a new Final Fantasy title  and the team only had a month to put it together, so it had to go with something familiar.Yoichi Wada President and chief executive officer, Square/Square Enix (2001-2013) Its true that we had financial reasons for it. When I joined in 2000, Square was on the verge of going bankrupt. And right before merging with Enix, Final Fantasy 10-2 contributed to our overall profit, which was the greatest in Squares history. We were able to go out on a high note. But also from the consumers side, Final Fantasy has great stories and solid characters, and people wanted to see where characters came from and what their backstories were and what happened next. We got a lot of requests from people along those lines, so in some ways we were just responding to those requests.  One thing I made sure of was that we had the same creators work on each of the spin-offs. So if its a spin-off of Final Fantasy 7, I made sure that Kitase-san and Nomura-san were the key creators to do it, or else it would turn into a different game.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan From the beginning, we planned to only do four spin-offs of Final Fantasy 7, and we publicly announced that would end with those four. We planned it that way ourselves so we wouldnt oversaturate the market.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan I think it has a lot to do with how you sort of massage your users expectation. A lot of these spin-offs  at least my impression after the fact. Oh, weve spent so much time and so much money creating this, and now we dont have as much. But we left an opening here that we might be able to exploit. Frank Hom Associate producer, Eidos (1995-2001) I believe, if those games were uniform in quality  some of them were fantastic, and some of them were just mediocre  but I think if they were uniform in quality, people wouldnt be able to get enough. They would want more and more Final Fantasy. And I think even today, people want more and more Final Fantasy.Almost 10 years after Final Fantasy 7s release, Square made it into a franchise of its own, with spinoff games, books, magazines, memorabilia and even a movie. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo As Square went through changes in the early 2000s, Sakaguchi, Takechi and Hashimoto werent the only staff to leave. For a company with hundreds of employees, some turnover was normal. Yet it turned out that a handful of team members ended up working together a second time as part of Microsofts then-newly-formed Tokyo studio built to support the Xbox in Japan.In one chain of hiring, Microsoft brought in Squares Takayuki Suguro, who then brought over Yoshinari, who then brought over Kawai. Along with a handful of other ex-Square employees  such as Maruyama, who took over as managing director of Microsoft Japan in 2003  some say it felt like a small reunion at Microsoft.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan Its not that we were trying to rebuild the team from Square at Microsoft on purpose or build the new Square or anything like that, but I and Sugaro-san and a guy named Fukugawa and another guy name Yasui who worked on Final Fantasy 9, we all joined around the same time. I guess it was a bit coincidental. And there were a few other people from Square there as well.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan Personally, Im an Apple person. You would not find me dead with a PC in my house. I just grew up with Apple, so its one of those hell would freeze over before I would go to Microsoft kind of things. But considering that there werent really opportunities that were interesting in Square, and that hopefully with a clean slate and with Microsofts expertise in mass-producing software that Id be able to do something different, I decided to take the leap.I told Sakaguchi-san that , and I guess maybe this was his policy with everybody: You can leave me once. Ill forgive you once. But just this once. Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan Basically everything was different between Square and Microsoft. But if I had to choose the most significant difference, it was that we didnt have anyone at Microsoft that was like Sakaguchi-san back at Square, that powerful leader who really kind of had that aura of leadership and drove everyone forward.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan Microsoft wanted to ship a game that only Japanese people could play, and they had three teams internally. Two of those teams kind of croaked. Our team was essentially on life support until I decided to raise my hand and say, Ill take full responsibility. The title that ended up shipping was Magatama. It never got ported over to the States. Its a hack and slash game, nothing special, but we did ship, which I considered, at that time, to be my primary objective.  At that point in Microsoft Japan, as you can imagine, morale was very low. Two of those three projects did not ship. Teams got canceled. Even feedback that Japanese devs tried to give back to HQ wasnt being reflected. There was this big hoopla about the Duke controller that came out initially.  A lot of people were generally suspicious of Microsoft HQ. But then Maruyama-san came along and he said, Dont worry. Ill take care of all the politics. An MIT graduate, Hiroshi Kawai initially interviewed with Square to be a translator, hoping to get his foot in the door. Then Square hired him as a game designer, and then he quickly shifted over to what he really wanted to do  programming  and he started experimenting with early Nintendo 64 and PlayStation hardware research and helping with the Final Fantasy 6: The Interactive CG Game tech demo. He went on to work as a programmer on Final Fantasy 7, then later became a lead programmer on Final Fantasy 9. In the early 2000s, he left Square to join Microsoft and worked as a producer and lead programmer on a variety of games including Lost Odyssey. Following that, he started his own programming studio, In Control, which works on various projects outside the game industry. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I happened to know Robbie Bach from the early days of Xbox. So he contacted me one day and he told me that he was looking for a managing director of the Xbox operation in Japan. I was a little nervous because the Xbox in Japan had been a big challenge. But they told me that the company was committed to keep operating worldwide, including Japan. So thats why I took the job.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.Sakaguchi was already independent after the, I shouldnt call it, big trouble of the Final Fantasy film. So I wanted to bring him back in.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan Despite the drawbacks that I knew that Microsoft had at the time, I think Microsoft was one of the few places in Japan that had the financial clout to pull off something of a Sakaguchi-class game.Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan It was really kind of a shock, in a good way. Because we had Maruyama-san, Kawai-san, and Sakaguchi-san all together for a game called Lost Odyssey. And after moving from Square to Microsoft, I never thought Id get to work with Sakaguchi-san again, so getting those three guys and some others on this new project, it really was a pretty big deal.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I went to approach Sakaguchi-san, telling him that Kawai-san was with us. Thats why  because of him, I think Sakaguchi decided to work with us.As a student, Tatsuya Yoshinari was such a fan of the early Final Fantasy titles that he made his own role-playing game and sent it to Square. Someone at the company liked it enough to offer him a job, and in 1995 he started as a programmer on the Super Famicom board game Koi wa Balance. Next he joined the Final Fantasy 7 team, working on the motorcycle chase and roller coaster minigames, then moved on to Squares action RPG Parasite Eve and Final Fantasy 9. After that, he left to join Microsoft and assisted on titles such as RPG Lost Odyssey. As the years went on, he left Microsoft and took a networking job with internet company Rakuten. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan called me up and said, Im trying to get Sakaguchi-san to come over and work on a 360 project. And he got us together, and I convinced Sakaguchi-san that  its kind of unorthodox from a Japanese point of view, but from a pure development point of view, Microsoft does have its assets. They do have their strengths. You just need to understand them and work in concert with them. Unfortunately, that in concert part kind of fell apart during the latter portions.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.I was hoping that Lost Odyssey and Blue Dragon would come at the launch of the Xbox 360, which didnt happen because of the delays of the projects.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan So after Sakaguchi-san came on board, we were working on a prototype with a very small team .  And trying to get a game engine put together for the 360 developed internally in Microsoft Japan was proving to be very .Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan Lost Odyssey was a really difficult project. That was when it really kind of hit home that, with all the new technology we had  and especially with very limited human resource support  it really was difficult to make very nice, high-end graphics. And at the time, we were working on the Unreal Engine, but it was still kind of in development itself. The game and engine were being developed simultaneously, and they both had bugs that needed to be worked out. So what would happen was we would update the engine, and then the game would no longer function, and wed have to go and work that out and figure out how to match it up with the newest version and everything. We kind of had to wait for the engine to catch up with parts of the game. So yeah, it took a lot of work, and making the graphics look as good as they could was really difficult.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan Unreal, in terms of graphics, its very capable and very, very impressive. But it was still essentially in alpha stage when they were trying to push it onto us.  And even the devs , their attitude  Im not saying this with any disrespect, but it was one of those, If you dont like it, dont use it . Their devs were very clear from the get-go, saying, This is what Unreals made for, and if it fits your needs, great. If it doesnt, youre on your own. If you need documentation, read the source code. If you need help, write us in English.  And while we were making a little progress on that front, we were running into personnel issues in terms of trying to hire people. Microsoft has this interesting sort of hiring scheme where, even if you say you had $100 million in your budget, you would be capped to this thing called headcount and it would be completely independent of your budget. So you may only have a headcount for two full-time employees even though you have a massive budget, and you could not increase that. Youd have to essentially trade horses with some other team whos willing to give up their headcount, and even then its still a precious commodity.Yoshihiro Maruyama Executive vice president, Square U.S.We couldnt use Microsoft employees to complete the projects because their overhead was very expensive. So we had no choice but to create a separate company.  It was a paper company just to hire developers.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan So it came to this point where it was like  we just werent going to get the people we needed within Microsoft, so it would be better to spin the team off into a separate company. But creating a company from scratch would be risky, so we would like to have somebody sponsor. And thats where they found Cavia, who was willing to take the team on and sort of be a sibling of our team. it was very difficult to convince people to move over.So despite having this new company  we were just calling it NewCo at the time, before it became feelplus  and although we had this shell of the company to work with, we still couldnt get our devs. And I dont know who got wind of it first, but  there was a role-playing game that was being developed by a company called Nautilus, who was a subsidiary of  Aruze, who was primarily into pachinko games in Japan.  I think they were no longer interested in maintaining that team. They were saying, If anybodys interested in taking this team on, were here to listen. And they had a full dev team there, and the dev team had been making role-playing games at that point. So the powers that be thought, Hey, why not just combine those guys with existing Microsoft guys and we now have double the capacity, so look out. Well, unfortunately it didnt, because the guys from Nautilus  I guess they were kind of given the cold shoulder. I mean, they were essentially being kicked out on the street, although they didnt end up being on the street because we picked them up so quickly, but they were kind of treated that way, so they were very suspicious of the guys from Microsoft. And especially the devs were absolutely not interested in using Unreal. They were saying, You cannot trust code written by a third party. We have no idea whats in it. We wont be able to customize it. Yadda, yadda, yadda. So we have 10 engineers from Nautilus, 10 plus engineers from Microsoft, and theyre not talking to each other.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan It had gotten to a point where it had taken a toll on me physically  My day-to-day work cycle was I would go one day, sleep overnight, and then stay at the office until the last train . I would only go back home once every two days. And it was just getting to the point where  the demo that we shipped, I just, my body was going to fall apart or something else was going to fall apart. So I said, I will get the TGS demo done. I will get it to the point where you can build upon that and finish the game. But after that, I just cannot do this job. Tatsuya Yoshinari Programmer, Square Japan It was really difficult working in that environment with two separate teams and hierarchies because the management lines werent clearly set as far as who reports to whom, and whos whose boss and everything. For example, Kawai-san, who had been my boss at Square, went over to feelplus, and basically for the first time, he was no longer my boss. And that was pretty strange, that this guy who had been my boss for a while suddenly wasnt anymore, even though I was still working with him. And even though he technically wasnt my boss anymore, the guy who was in place as my manager wasnt really exactly the best fit for the job. So to be honest, deep down, I never really considered that guy to be my boss. I trusted Kawai-san a lot more.  So yeah, it was a bit difficult working with two separate teams and two separate hierarchies with really kind of vague and not very clear-cut management report lines.Hiroshi Kawai Character programmer, Square Japan During Lost Odyssey, it was very difficult working with , not only because he has his own style of getting things done, . It wasnt important just to get that game out. It was important to get their employees to develop themselves, and maybe this is going too far by saying shipping something was a side effect, but it kind of felt like that at times, being a manager at Microsoft. And that conflicts very, very much with the way that Japanese games tended to get developed, where youd have this sort of authoritarian, almost dictator-like director at the very top who not only handled creative decisions but also handled HR decisions and had full authority there. It just didnt work that way at Microsoft.  I didnt talk to when I finally decided to leave. But I did get an email from him saying, Lost Odyssey shipped, and maybe we could have a chat over drinks. Because I guess maybe he felt guilty. Maybe he wanted to get things sort of out in the air. At that point, I was just kind of tired and I declined.Mistwalkers Blue Dragon and Lost Odyssey filled a genre gap in Microsofts Xbox 360 lineup and earned loyal fans, but the games werent successful enough to become new franchises like Final Fantasy. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo In the 20 years since Final Fantasy 7s release, a lot has changed. Square is now Square Enix, having merged with its former rival, and has acquired former independent publishers Taito and Eidos. In 2017, the company juggles a large roster of franchises, including Tomb Raider, Deus Ex, Dragon Quest, Kingdom Hearts and Final Fantasy. And it releases multiple Final Fantasy projects every year  even occasional CG movies.But over most of that time, one thing has remained constant for many fans: A desire for a Final Fantasy 7 remake. In part fueled by a 2005 PlayStation 3 tech demo that showed what a graphically upgraded version of the game could look like,the idea of a remake became something of a myth, with fans constantly hoping and speculating but never getting any concrete information to know whether anything was in development.Then in 2015, after years of fan requests and rumors, Square Enix showed a trailer at Sonys E3 press conference to announce the game everyone had been waiting for.Remake, the title appeared. Some fans cried with happiness.As part of the remake announcement, Square Enix revealed that Tetsuya Nomura will serve as the games director, Yoshinori Kitase the producer and Kazushige Nojima the scenario writer, reuniting three of the original games creative leads.At Sonys PlayStation Experience event in 2015, Final Fantasy 7 Remake producer Yoshinori Kitase and director Tetsuya Nomura revealed the first public footage from the game. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA In general, I dont like remakes. When I was at Square, I was opposed to making them. If people were going to spend time and effort on a remake, I thought that time would be better spent on something new. And I still feel the same way.Hironobu Sakaguchi Producer and executive vice president, Square Japan; Chairman and chief executive officer, Square USA Back when I ran development at Square, I would say, Lets not do remakes. I was always thinking, Rather than remakes, lets put that energy into new projects. But time has passed, and now we can construct game worlds with CG far more detailed than what I was thinking of at the time. Now that weve reached this level, you cant help but get excited about the possibilities. With the announcement of the FF7 remake, Im looking forward to it both as its father and as a player. If possible, Id like to see a scalpel taken to not just the visuals, but the game mechanics as well, to create something that we can become even more deeply immersed in.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Weve talked about doing a Final Fantasy 7 remake for a long time, and, over the years, sometimes it would come up, sometimes it would go away. Depending on my schedule, maybe I was too busy to actually tackle the project, or something else would come up. So its been around, but it never came to pass. But now that I have a little bit of availability in my schedule, we decided that we wanted to go ahead and kick it off. And we wanted to make sure that we could do it while we still have certain people around that were on the original Final Fantasy 7. Because we didnt want to end up passing it on to a generation that doesnt know the original game. We wanted to make sure to keep the integrity of Final Fantasy 7,that we make sure that Kitase-san is involved and Nojima-san are involved and I am involved. Thats one of the reasons why were doing it now.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Its been awhile since weve worked together, hasnt it?Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Yeah, it has.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Now that I think back on it, was there anything we worked on together after FF7?Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan There was FF13.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Yeah, but we werent really working together that closely.  Up to FF7, wed mostly worked on the same team. Then there was FF8, which you contributed some battle and character ideas to, and youve done various character design work for other projects over the years, but I think the last game we were really deeply involved in together was FF7.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Yeah. So how is it ?Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan I dont remember you being this  detailed with your instructions.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Yes, yes I am.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Hes very, very detail oriented. And he really pushes right up to that final deadline  or past it.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan Thats only when we havent gotten approval from the higher-ups yet.Yoshinori Kitase Director, Square Japan Oh? Thats funny, I dont remember it being like that before.Tetsuya Nomura Character and battle visual director, Square Japan For the people involved in making Final Fantasy 7, Im sure it holds a special place in their heart. It was such a revolutionary title, and people who played it thought it was such a big turning point for the Final Fantasy franchise,because that was the first time we implemented 3D polygons and it was so different from the previous iterations. So  there is something special for me about going back to that game now.As the head of independent development studio CyberConnect2, Hiroshi Matsuyama has been overseeing Naruto and .hack games, among others, for the past 15 years. Now his team is working with Square Enix on the Final Fantasy 7 Remake. Unfortunately,right now, weve been told by Square Enix, Dont talk about it at all, he says. Matsuyama acknowledges, though, that CyberConnect2s large number of artists, animators and cinematics staff is probably one of the reasons Square hired us. | Photographer: Irwin Wong Prior to Square Enix announcing the Final Fantasy 7 Remake, then-president Yoichi Wada said that he didnt want the company to remake FF7 until it had produced another game that exceeded its quality and impact, which he didnt feel it had done. Following the Remake announcement and after Wada had stepped down, Polygon asked him if he felt the company had done so. Obviously I did say that, and I still believe it, he said. Im not completely in the loop as to what the current project is now, so I dont want to say too much on that.  Its not going to be an easy challenge to meet the high fan expectations, but theyve announced it and Id very much like for it to deliver on the promise it has. Later, Polygon asked FF7 Remake director Tetsuya Nomura if Wada leaving played a role in the team moving forward with the project. I dont believe its related, he said.As of this story going live, Final Fantasy 7 is on the verge of its 20th anniversary, and most of the key people involved in its creation and release have left Square Enix  many of them landing in high-profile roles in and around the game industry.Uematsu, for instance, is one of the game industrys most acclaimed freelance composers, recently working on Japanese mobile RPG success story Granblue Fantasy. Amano is one of the most popular artists in Japan, selling some new mainstream work for six figures while dabbling in occasional game industry jobs. And Iwasaki runs GungHo Online America, the U.S. branch of the company behind Japanese mobile chart-topper Puzzle & Dragons.Meanwhile, Sakaguchi runs production studio Mistwalker, a small team that has worked on various role-playing games over the past decade  even an RPG published by Nintendo in certain territories called The Last Story. Sakaguchi says,at this point, he no longer has career ambitions outside of games; that he doesnt have another film in him and hes focused on continuing to make an impact on the game industry instead.Following its announcement of the Final Fantasy 7 Remake, Square Enix gave the press postcards signed by producer Yoshinori Kitase and director Tetsuya Nomura. Check Polygon shortly after this story posts for a chance to win them and other Final Fantasy 7-related items. | Photographer: Jonathan Castillo In April 2015, he said Mistwalker had begun work on a console version of its mobile game Terra Battle. In February 2016, Mistwalker and Silicon Studio announced a collaboration to develop a new project. And in June 2016, Sakaguchi said he was starting a new development studio of his own that will experiment with mixing video streaming into game design.Looking back, Sakaguchi says Final Fantasy 7 marked a personal career highlight, though not one that eclipses the others hes seen over the years.Asked if he thinks his career has changed course because of Final Fantasy 7, he says, I hear that a lot, but to me the change didnt feel so sudden. The game was very successful, but really it felt like part of the momentum we had been building since the first Final Fantasy. For many on the team, though, FF7 stands out as not only a successful game, but a standout moment in their careers, a rare case of resources matching ambition at a turning point in the game industry.It was a Final Fantasy full of so many firsts, and I still love the fact we challenged ourselves to the fullest in every aspect  the world, the designs, the execution, etc., says Square Japan art director Yusuke Naora. Given the technical constraints of that time, I have no complaints. Play Polygon + AU Game Lab's Final Fantasy 7-inspired trivia game Now that you've read the feature, test your knowledge of Final Fantasy 7's development, story, mechanics and more in our interactive trivia game, made in collaboration with American University's Game Lab and the JoLT Initiative, funded by Knight Foundation.Welcome back! This is where you stopped reading.Go Back to the top.Copy the link below to save where you are in the story. It will return you to the exact line where you left off.Published on Jan 09, 2017, 09:00am PST Matt Leone Brittany Holloway-Brown Jonathan Castillo Irwin Wong Forbes Conrad (Amano/Hashimoto) Sara Masetti (Uematsu) James Mielke (Nomura) Scott Nelson (Uematsu) Clayton Ashley Kavya Sukumar Cherisse Datu Jon Douglas Kelli Dunlap Amy Eisman Allegra Frank Scott Gamble Lindsay Grace Alex Highsmith Steven Leon Tara Long Michael McWhertor James Mielke Joy Mielke Hiroko Minamoto James Mountain Ashley Oh Jeff Ramos Joyce Rice Jeffrey Rutenbeck Kelsey Scherer Nancy Seay Chris Ansell (Ansell) Toby Canham/Getty Images (Harrison) William Chen (Chen) Electronic Arts (Riccitiello) Rex Ishibashi (Ishibashi) Robert Schlesinger/Picture Alliance (Boesky) for DLD16 Conference via Creative Commons Darren Smith (Smith) Wearality (Jones)  2016 Vox Media Inc. all rights reserved  Designed & Developed in house Partner site of The Verge