The Wii has already set more than its share of sales records, but it looks like Nintendo has now claimed another big one, with the latest NPD figures indicating that the Wii has become the fastest-selling console ever in the United States. That milestone was apparently marked when the Wii sailed past 20 million consoles sold after just 31 months on the market, although that number is of course just a small part of the more than 50 million consoles shipped worldwide which, incidentally, has already made the Wii the fastest-selling console in the world.Meta is starting to bring the Threads API online, though it will still be some time before its widely accessible to developers.Apple has walked back its decision to remove home screen web apps in the European Union (EU). After initially blaming its decision to ditch them on the Digital Markets Acts (DMA) requirement to support non-WebKit browsers, Apple now says European users will get them back when iOS 17.4 arrives early this month.Dune Part 2 was worth the wait -- and it'll literally kick your butt.This week, Adobe revealed an experimental audio AI tool to join its image-based ones in Photoshop. Described by the company as an early-stage generative AI music generation and editing tool, Adobes Project Music GenAI Control can create music from text prompts, which it can then fine-tune.Spotify is now offering a subscription tier just for audiobooks. It costs $10 per month and includes the same 15 hours of listening time as a Premium plan.Mark Zuckerbergs recent PR blitz is neither out of character nor a sign of a freshly rehabbed image.No matter how convoluted and expensive streaming video services become, Ill always think: At least its better than watching this thing over dial-up.This Saturday, on March 2, 2024, Engadget turns 20. To mark the occasion, our team has prepared almost 20 articles about the tech industry over the past two decades, the products that truly made an impact and how tech has changed our lives.The new Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max is on sale for a record low of $40. Thats a discount of $20 or 33 percent.This week's best tech deals include a PS5 bundle for $450, the Apple AirPods Pro for $189 and a bunch of discounts on Anker accessories.Elon Musk has sued OpenAI and co-founders Sam Altman and Greg Brockman. He claims that OpenAI has betrayed its original mission as a non-profit endeavor by working on an artificial general intelligence to maximize profits for Microsoft." Intuit is shutting down its popular Mint app in March 2024. Engadget tested a bunch of popular alternatives. Here are our favorites.While its a bit pricey, the Razer Blade 14 delivers almost everything you could want in a portable gaming laptop.Fisker has announced it will lay off 15 percent of its workforce  about 200 people. It's also searching for a production partner for future models.We chat about Engadget's editorial changes and a report about the Apple Car project shutting down.A good controller can level-up your entire Switch gaming experience. These are the best Switch controllers you can buy right now.The biggest news stories this morning: Dell XPS 16 laptop review, The best DACs for Apple Music Lossless, UK government wants to use AI to cut civil service jobs.X has updated its abuse and harassment page in January, and it has added a new section that explains its new rule against intentionally using the wrong pronouns for a person or using a name they no longer go by.In early April, the Facebook News tab will start disappearing for users in the US and Australia. Meta will also stop paying Australian news organizations for their content, ending deals currently worth around $66 million.Saber Interactive has reportedly found an exit strategy from the death grip of its parent company, Embracer Group AB. Bloomberg reported Thursday that a group of private investors will buy the studio in a deal worth roughly $500 million.Subscribe to our two newsletters:- A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget'sTerms andPrivacy Policy.