Glenn Gaslin is a contributor to EW Internet The videogame-console war that currently pits Nintendos GameCube against Microsofts Xbox and Sonys PlayStation 2 just got a little more fierce. Joining the fray are some battle-tested old-timers, including Atari, ColecoVision, Intellivision  and just about every bit-mappy, low-res game-box from the 70s and 80s. The Net now hosts a vast grassroots revival in vintage systems, with their block graphics and gloriously cheesy 2-D games. Whats the big deal? Well, for one, 21st-century consoles may render movielike graphics, but they also recycle proven formulas ad infinitum  Tony Hawk or Star Wars, anyone? The graphics get better, but gameplay hasnt changed in years, says Martin Goldberg, editor of the news site Classic Gaming I see more people going back to simpler games or more creative games where the graphics dont matter. Steering clear of the few pitfalls, we explored the Web of retro gaming:ATARI AGE (atariage.com) This site dishes daily on decades-dead Atari consoles, from the once-omnipresent 2600 to the more recent Jaguar. Beyond collecting and playing cartridges, fans write and post hacks to update them (one, called Kabul!, turns the mad bomber from the 80s cartridge Kaboom! into Osama bin Laden). And just last year, this site uncovered what may be The Story of 2001 (well, for Atari freaks): a playable version of a never-released, long-rumored 1983 cartridge based on The Lord of the Rings. A CLASSIC GAMING A packed, slick hub for whats most important in old games: playing the things. Name a defunct console  Vectrex, Intellivision, Odyssey 2  and you can boot up the original games on your home computer using one of the emulators collected here. Most out-of-circulation games  including arcade machines like Crazy Climber  now run on one of these emulators, but Goldberg says something is lost blasting Asteroids at your desk. Youre not getting the experience of playing the things in the arcade, with your friends, he says, and for a lot of people, thats where the memory is. A-PONG-STORY (pong-story.com) Drama! Intrigue! Patent infringement! Giant machines that play tennis! The strange history of Pong, considered by many to be the worlds first videogame, is told on this overly comprehensive site, complete with stacks of technical data and photos. From its beginnings as a 60s government-lab contract to its 70s home-system sensation, the story even includes some big-dollar maneuvering between electronics giants Magnavox and Atari. While this site cant definitively tell you who invented the first videogame, theres enough detail, including a how-to page on building your own Pong-box, to tear you away from your PS2 for, oh, five or six whole minutes. B