Get all the benefits of Nintendo Switch Online, plus access to classic Nintendo 64, Game Boy Advance, and Sega Genesis games, along with select DLC.Party like its 1996 with classic Nintendo 64 games like Mario Kart 64, GoldenEye 007, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, and more!Includes classics like The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap and Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3.Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack members also get access a collection of SEGA Genesis gameslike Sonic the Hedgehog 2 and Golden Axethat are great to play anytime, anywhere!Your Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership gives you access to select DLC* at no additional charge!A total of 48 courses from throughout the Mario Kart series are racing to the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe game! Content will release in 6 waves until the end of 2023.Join Lottie and her team on a distant resort archipelago and help turn the dream vacation homes of your favorite Animal Crossing characters into a reality. Get creative with furniture and design options, then share your ideas with players all over the world!Play as an Octoling in this large-scale downloadable content that features a full-on single-player adventure spanning 80 missions starring Agent 8, a character who awakens on a dark subway platform.Learn how to download DLC with your Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership in this helpful video.Wondering which Nintendo Switch Online membership you should purchase? See what each plan offers and decide which one fits you best. Dont forgetyou can team up with seven other people with a Family Membership! Each of you can enjoy all the benefits of a Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack for only about $10 per person a yearshare the fun and share the savings!See how many users are allowed with each type of membership.1 1 Enjoy online play in compatible games like Splatoon 3 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. Learn more Playor replayclassic games like Super Mario Bros., Metroid, and more. Learn more Jump into favorites like Super Mario Kart, Donkey Kong Country, and more. Learn more Includes classics like Kirbys Dream Land, Metroid II - Return of Samus, and Super Mario Land 2 - 6 Golden Coins. Learn more Your save data is automatically stored safely online for compatible games. Learn more Open the app on your smartphone or tablet to access special features in supported games. Learn more Enjoy exclusive deals and content with your membership, including Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers! Learn more Play classic Nintendo 64 games like Mario Kart 64 online with friends. Learn more Includes classics like The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap and Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3. Learn more Play additional courses from throughout the Mario Kart series. Learn more Join Lottie and her team on a distant resort archipelago. Learn more Play as an Octoling in this full-on single-player adventure. Learn more Access a collection of SEGA Genesis games like Sonic the Hedgehog 2 and Golden Axe. Learn more Watch these videos to learn more about the features included in each membership option.Try Nintendo Switch Online for free!Want to try before you buy? Test out a Nintendo Switch Online membership with a free 7-day trial.Here are some frequently asked questions (and answers!) about Nintendo Switch Online and Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack.A paid Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pass membership includes additional benefits like access to the Nintendo 64 - Nintendo Switch Online and SEGA Genesis - Nintendo Switch Online game libraries. For the most up-to-date information, select Nintendo Switch Online from the HOME Menu of your Nintendo Switch console.A paid Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pass membership includes access to add-on content like the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe - Booster Course Pass, the Splatoon 2: Octo Expansion, and the Animal Crossing: New Horizons  Happy Home Paradise DLC. Please note that the full games are required to play the DLC. For the most up-to-date information, select Nintendo Switch Online from the HOME Menu of your Nintendo Switch console.One free, seven-day trial of the Nintendo Switch Online service is available per Nintendo Account, through Nintendo eShop on your device. A free trial for Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack, however, is not available.Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack is offered everywhere that Nintendo Switch Online is available.Select games are added throughout the year and more will be added in the foreseeable future. For the latest updates, choose Nintendo Switch Online from the HOME Menu of your Nintendo Switch console.Any Nintendo Switch Online membership (sold separately) and Nintendo Account required for online features. Paid Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack required to play the Nintendo 64  Nintendo Switch Online, Game Boy Advance - Nintendo Switch Online and SEGA Genesis  Nintendo Switch Online collections of games, and to access the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe  Booster Course Pass, Animal Crossing: New Horizons  Happy Home Paradise and Splatoon 2: Octo Expansion DLC at no additional cost. Free trial automatically converts to 1-month auto-renewing membership unless automatic renewal is turned off by the end of the free trial. Credit card / PayPal account required for 18+. Free trial cannot be redeemed by a Nintendo Account with an active individual membership or family membership. Persistent Internet, compatible smartphone, and Nintendo Account age 13+ required to access some online features on the app, including voice chat. Data charges may apply. Online features, Save Data Cloud, and Nintendo Switch Online smartphone app features available in compatible games. Not available in all countries. The Nintendo Account User Agreement, including the Purchase and Subscription terms, apply.*Paid Nintendo Switch Online membership required at the time of purchase and redemption of Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers. Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers must be redeemed within 12 months from purchase date, have no cash value, and cannot be transferred, returned, or redeemed for cash. Each Nintendo Switch Game Voucher may be redeemed for one game offered as part of the catalog. To receive promotional value, Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers must be redeemed for two games with a cumulative price that is higher than the purchase price of the Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers. Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers may not be combined with any other sale, discount, or promotional offer unless otherwise specified. Game catalog subject to change.**Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack members can access this DLC for no additional charge (Nintendo Switch Online members may access DLC but must pay like non-members). Full version of game required to use DLC for that game. Sold separately. Nintendo. Games are property of their respective owners. Nintendo of America Inc. Headquarters are in Redmond, Washington, USA